It is a small plant	 delicately branched and	 tapering conically	 to a point, each branch	 and the peak a wire for	 green pods, blind lanterns	 starting upward from	 the stalk each way to	 a pair of prickly edged blue	 flowerets: it is her regard,	 a little plant without leaves,	 a finished thing guarding	 its secret. Blue eyes—	 but there are twenty looks	 in one, alike as forty flowers	 on twenty stems—Blue eyes	 a little closed upon a wish	 achieved and half lost again,	 stemming back, garlanded	 with green sacks of	 satisfaction gone to seed,	 back to a straight stem—if	 one looks into you, trumpets—!	 No. It is the pale hollow of	 desire itself counting	 over and over the moneys of	 a stale achievement. Three	 small lavender imploring tips	 below and above them two	 slender colored arrows	 of disdain with anthers	 between them and	 at the edge of the goblet	 a white lip, to drink from—!	 And summer lifts her look	 forty times over, forty times	 over—namelessly.  Again I reply to the triple winds  running chromatic fifths of derision  outside my window:  Play louder.  You will not succeed. I am  bound more to my sentences  the more you batter at me  to follow you.  And the wind,  as before, fingers perfectly  its derisive music. The birches are mad with green points  the wood's edge is burning with their green,  burning, seething--No, no, no.  The birches are opening their leaves one  by one. Their delicate leaves unfold cold  and separate, one by one. Slender tassels  hang swaying from the delicate branch tips--  Oh, I cannot say it. There is no word.  Black is split at once into flowers. In  every bog and ditch, flares of  small fire, white flowers!--Agh,  the birches are mad, mad with their green.  The world is gone, torn into shreds  with this blessing. What have I left undone  that I should have undertaken?   O my brother, you redfaced, living man  ignorant, stupid whose feet are upon  this same dirt that I touch--and eat.  We are alone in this terror, alone,  face to face on this road, you and I,  wrapped by this flame!  Let the polished plows stay idle,  their gloss already on the black soil.  But that face of yours--!  Answer me. I will clutch you. I  will hug you, grip you. I will poke my face  into your face and force you to see me.  Take me in your arms, tell me the commonest  thing that is in your mind to say,  say anything. I will understand you--!  It is the madness of the birch leaves opening  cold, one by one.   My rooms will receive me. But my rooms  are no longer sweet spaces where comfort  is ready to wait on me with its crumbs.  A darkness has brushed them. The mass  of yellow tulips in the bowl is shrunken.  Every familiar object is changed and dwarfed.  I am shaken, broken against a might  that splits comfort, blows apart  my careful partitions, crushes my house  and leaves me--with shrinking heart  and startled, empty eyes--peering out  into a cold world.   In the spring I would be drunk! In the spring  I would be drunk and lie forgetting all things.  Your face! Give me your face, Yang Kue Fei!  your hands, your lips to drink!  Give me your wrists to drink--  I drag you, I am drowned in you, you  overwhelm me! Drink!  Save me! The shad bush is in the edge  of the clearing. The yards in a fury  of lilac blossoms are driving me mad with terror.  Drink and lie forgetting the world.   And coldly the birch leaves are opening one by one.  Coldly I observe them and wait for the end.  And it ends. Light hearted William twirled  his November moustaches  and, half dressed, looked  from the bedroom window  upon the spring weather.   Heigh-ya! sighed he gaily  leaning out to see  up and down the street  where a heavy sunlight  lay beyond some blue shadows.   Into the room he drew  his head again and laughed  to himself quietly  twirling his green moustaches. Leaves are graygreen, the glass broken, bright green. Love is twain, it is not single, Gold and silver mixed to one, Passion ‘tis and pain which mingle Glist'ring then for aye undone.  Pain it is not; wondering pity Dies or e'er the pang is fled; Passion ‘tis not, foul and gritty, Born one instant, instant dead.  Love is twain, it is not single, Gold and silver mixed to one, Passion ‘tis and pain which mingle Glist'ring then for aye undone. Winter is long in this climate  and spring--a matter of a few days  only,--a flower or two picked  from mud or from among wet leaves  or at best against treacherous  bitterness of wind, and sky shining  teasingly, then closing in black  and sudden, with fierce jaws.  II  March,  you reminded me of  the pyramids, our pyramids--  stript of the polished stone  that used to guard them!  March,  you are like Fra Angelico  at Fiesole, painting on plaster!   March,  you are like a band of  young poets that have not learned  the blessedness of warmth  (or have forgotten it).  At any rate--  I am moved to write poetry  for the warmth there is in it  and for the loneliness--  a poem that shall have you  in it March.  III  See!  Ashur-ban-i-pal,  the archer king, on horse-back,  in blue and yellow enamel!  with drawn bow--facing lions  standing on their hind legs,  fangs bared! his shafts  bristling in their necks!   Sacred bulls--dragons  in embossed brickwork  marching--in four tiers--  along the sacred way to  Nebuchadnezzar's throne hall!  They shine in the sun,  they that have been marching--  marching under the dust of  ten thousand dirt years.   Now--  they are coming into bloom again!  See them!  marching still, bared by  the storms from my calender  --winds that blow back the sand!  winds that enfilade dirt!  winds that by strange craft  have whipt up a black army  that by pick and shovel  bare a procession to  the god, Marduk!   Natives cursing and digging  for pay unearth dragons with  upright tails and sacred bulls  alternately--  in four tiers--  lining the way to an old altar!  Natives digging at old walls--  digging me warmth--digging me sweet loneliness  high enamelled walls.  IV  My second spring--  passed in a monastery  with plaster walls--in Fiesole  on the hill above 'Florence.  My second spring--painted  a virgin--in a blue aureole  sitting on a three-legged stool,  arms crossed--  she is intently serious,  and still  watching an angel  with colored wings  half kneeling before her--  and smiling--the angel's eyes  holding the eyes of Mary  as a snake's hold a bird's.  On the ground there are flowers,  trees are in leaf.  V  But! now for the battle!  Now for murder--now for the real thing!  My third springtime is approaching!  Winds!  lean, serious as a virgin,  seeking, seeking the flowers of March.   Seeking  flowers nowhere to be found,  they twine among the bare branches  in insatiable eagerness--  they whirl up the snow  seeking under it--  they--the winds--snakelike  roar among yellow reeds  seeking flowers--flowers.   I spring among them  seeking one flower  in which to warm myself!   I deride with all the ridicule  of misery--  my own starved misery.   Counter-cutting winds  strike against me  refreshing their fury!   Come, good, cold fellows!  Have we no flowers?  Defy then with even more  desperation than ever--being  lean and frozen!   But though you are lean and frozen--  think of the blue bulls of Babylon.   Fling yourselves upon  their empty roses--  cut savagely!   But--  think of the painted monastery  at Fiesole. You say love is this, love is that:  Poplar tassels, willow tendrils  the wind and the rain comb,  tinkle and drip, tinkle and drip--  branches drifting apart. Hagh!  Love has not even visited this country. There is a bird in the poplars!  It is the sun!  The leaves are little yellow fish  swimming in the river.  The bird skims above them,  day is on his wings.  Phoebus!  It is he that is making  the great gleam among the poplars!  It is his singing  outshines the noise  of leaves clashing in the wind. Oh, black Persian cat!  Was not your life  already cursed with offspring?  We took you for rest to that old  Yankee farm, — so lonely  and with so many field mice  in the long grass —  and you return to us  in this condition —!   Oh, black Persian cat. Flowers through the window lavender and yellow  changed by white curtains – Smell of cleanliness –   Sunshine of late afternoon – On the glass tray  a glass pitcher, the tumbler turned down, by which  a key is lying – And the  immaculate white bed They tell me on the morrow I must leave  This winter eyrie for a southern flight  And truth to tell I tremble with delight  At thought of such unheralded reprieve.  E'er have I known December in a weave  Of blanched crystal, when, thrice one short night  Packed full with magic, and O blissful sight!  N'er May so warmly doth for April grieve.  To in a breath's space wish the winter through  And lo, to see it fading! Where, oh, where  Is caract could endow this princely boon?  Yet I have found it and shall shortly view  The lush high grasses, shortly see in air  Gay birds and hear the bees make heavy droon. The green-blue ground is ruled with silver lines to say the sun is shining  And on this moral sea of grass or dreams lie flowers or baskets of desires  Heaven knows what they are between cerulean shapes laid regularly round  Mat roses and tridentate leaves of gold threes, threes and threes  Three roses and three stems the basket floating standing in the horns of blue  Repeating to the ceiling to the windows where the day  Blows in the scalloped curtains to the sound of rain Men with picked voices chant the names  of cities in a huge gallery: promises  that pull through descending stairways  to a deep rumbling.   The rubbing feet  of those coming to be carried quicken a  grey pavement into soft light that rocks  to and fro, under the domed ceiling,  across and across from pale  earthcolored walls of bare limestone.   Covertly the hands of a great clock  go round and round! Were they to  move quickly and at once the whole  secret would be out and the shuffling  of all ants be done forever.   A leaning pyramid of sunlight, narrowing  out at a high window, moves by the clock:  disaccordant hands straining out from  a center: inevitable postures infinitely  repeated--  two--twofour--twoeight!  Porters in red hats run on narrow platforms.  This way ma'am!  --important not to take  the wrong train!  Lights from the concrete  ceiling hang crooked but--  Poised horizontal  on glittering parallels the dingy cylinders  packed with a warm glow--inviting entry--  pull against the hour. But brakes can  hold a fixed posture till--  The whistle!   Not twoeight. Not twofour. Two!   Gliding windows. Colored cooks sweating  in a small kitchen. Taillights--   In time: twofour!  In time: twoeight!   --rivers are tunneled: trestles  cross oozy swampland: wheels repeating  the same gesture remain relatively  stationary: rails forever parallel  return on themselves infinitely.  The dance is sure. The little sparrows  hop ingenuously  about the pavement  quarreling  with sharp voices  over those things  that interest them.  But we who are wiser  shut ourselves in  on either hand  and no one knows  whether we think good  or evil.  Meanwhile,  the old man who goes about  gathering dog-lime  walks in the gutter  without looking up  and his tread  is more majestic than  that of the Episcopal minister  approaching the pulpit  of a Sunday.  These things  astonish me beyond words. The Archer is wake!  The Swan is flying!  Gold against blue  An Arrow is lying.  There is hunting in heaven--  Sleep safe till tomorrow.  The Bears are abroad!  The Eagle is screaming!  Gold against blue  Their eyes are gleaming!  Sleep!  Sleep safe till tomorrow.  The Sisters lie  With their arms intertwining;  Gold against blue  Their hair is shining!  The Serpent writhes!  Orion is listening!  Gold against blue  His sword is glistening!  Sleep!  There is hunting in heaven--  Sleep safe till tomorrow. Pour the wine bridegroom where before you the bride is enthroned her hair  loose at her temples a head of ripe wheat is on the wall beside her the  guests seated at long tables the bagpipers are ready there is a hound under  the table the bearded Mayor is present women in their starched headgear are  gabbing all but the bride hands folded in her lap is awkwardly silent simple  dishes are being served clabber and what not from a trestle made of an  unhinged barn door by two helpers one in a red coat a spoon in his hatband. Subtle, clever brain, wiser than I am,  by what devious means do you contrive  to remain idle? Teach me, O master. As the cat climbed over the top of  the jamcloset first the right forefoot  carefully then the hind stepped down  into the pit of the empty flowerpotYour thighs are appletrees whose blossoms touch the sky. Which sky? The sky where Watteau hung a lady's slipper. Your knees are a southern breeze -- or a gust of snow. Agh! what sort of man was Fragonard? -- As if that answered anything. -- Ah, yes. Below the knees, since the tune drops that way, it is one of those white summer days, the tall grass of your ankles flickers upon the shore -- Which shore? -- the sand clings to my lips -- Which shore? Agh, petals maybe. How should I know? Which shore? Which shore? -- the petals from some hidden appletree -- Which shore? I said petals from an appletree. Now that I have cooled to you  Let there be gold of tarnished masonry,  Temples soothed by the sun to ruin  That sleep utterly.  Give me hand for the dances,  Ripples at Philae, in and out,  And lips, my Lesbian,  Wall flowers that once were flame.   Your hair is my Carthage  And my arms the bow,  And our words arrows  To shoot the stars  Who from that misty sea  Swarm to destroy us.   But you there beside me—  Oh, how shall I defy you,  Who wound me in the night  With breasts shining  Like Venus and like Mars?  The night that is shouting Jason  When the loud eaves rattle  As with waves above me  Blue at the prow of my desire. Yellow, yellow, yellow, yellow!  It is not a color.  It is summer!  It is the wind on a willow,  the lap of waves, the shadow  under a bush, a bird, a bluebird,  three herons, a dead hawk  rotting on a pole--  Clear yellow!  It is a piece of blue paper  in the grass or a threecluster of  green walnuts swaying, children  playing croquet or one boy  fishing, a man  swinging his pink fists  as he walks--  It is ladysthumb, forget-me-nots  in the ditch, moss under  the flange of the carrail, the  wavy lines in split rock, a  great oaktree--  It is a disinclination to be  five red petals or a rose, it is  a cluster of birdsbreast flowers  on a red stem six feet high,  four open yellow petals  above sepals curled  backward into reverse spikes--  Tufts of purple grass spot the  green meadow and clouds the sky. A big young bareheaded woman in an apron  Her hair slicked back standing on the street  One stockinged foot toeing the sidewalk  Her shoe in her hand. Looking intently into it  She pulls out the paper insole to find the nail  That has been hurting her Her body is not so white as  anemone petals nor so smooth--nor  so remote a thing. It is a field  of the wild carrot taking  thefield by force; the grass  does not raise above it.  Here is no question of whiteness,  white as can be, with a purple mole  at the center of each flower.  Each flower is a hand's span  of her whiteness. Wherever  his hand has lain there is  a tiny purple blossom under his touch  to which the fibres of her being  stem one by one, each to its end,  until the whole field is a  white desire, empty, a single stem,  a cluster, flower by flower,  a pious wish to whiteness gone over--  or nothing. Tracks of rain and light linger in  the spongy greens of a nature whose  flickering mountain--bulging nearer,  ebbing back into the sun  hollowing itself away to hold a lake,--  or brown stream rising and falling at the roadside, turning about,  churning itself white, drawing  green in over it,--plunging glassy funnels  fall--   And--the other world--  the windshield a blunt barrier:  Talk to me. Sh! they would hear us.  --the backs of their heads facing us--  The stream continues its motion of  a hound running over rough ground.   Trees vanish--reappear--vanish:  detached dance of gnomes--as a talk  dodging remarks, glows and fades.  --The unseen power of words--  And now that a few of the moves  are clear the first desire is  to fling oneself out at the side into  the other dance, to other music.   Peer Gynt. Rip Van Winkle. Diana.  If I were young I would try a new alignment--  alight nimbly from the car, Good-bye!--  Childhood companions linked two and two  criss-cross: four, three, two, one.  Back into self, tentacles withdrawn.  Feel about in warm self-flesh.  Since childhood, since childhood!  Childhood is a toad in the garden, a  happy toad. All toads are happy  and belong in gardens. A toad to Diana!   Lean forward. Punch the steerman  behind the ear. Twirl the wheel!  Over the edge! Screams! Crash!  The end. I sit above my head--  a little removed--or  a thin wash of rain on the roadway  --I am never afraid when he is driving,--  interposes new direction,  rides us sidewise, unforseen  into the ditch! All threads cut!  Death! Black. The end. The very end--   I would sit separate weighing a  small red handful: the dirt of these parts,  sliding mists sheeting the alders  against the touch of fingers creeping  to mine. All stuff of the blind emotions.  But--stirred, the eye seizes  for the first time--The eye awake!--  anything, a dirt bank with green stars  of scrawny weed flattened upon it under  a weight of air--For the first time!--  or a yawning depth: Big!  Swim around in it, through it--  all directions and find  vitreous seawater stuff--  God how I love you!--or, as I say,  a plunge into the ditch. The End. I sit  examining my red handful. Balancing  --this--in and out--agh.   Love you? It's  a fire in the blood, willy-nilly!  It's the sun coming up in the morning.  Ha, but it's the grey moon too, already up  in the morning. You are slow.  Men are not friends where it concerns  a woman? Fighters. Playfellows.  White round thighs! Youth! Sighs--!  It's the fillip of novelty. It's--   Mountains. Elephants humping along  against the sky--indifferent to  light withdrawing its tattered shreds,  worn out with embraces. It's  the fillip of novelty. It's a fire in the blood.   Oh get a flannel shirt, white flannel  or pongee. You'd look so well!  I married you because I liked your nose.  I wanted you! I wanted you  in spite of all they'd say--   Rain and light, mountain and rain,  rain and river. Will you love me always?  --A car overturned and two crushed bodies  under it.--Always! Always!  And the white moon already up.  White. Clean. All the colors.  A good head, backed by the eye--awake!  backed by the emotions--blind--  River and mountain, light and rain--or  rain, rock, light, trees--divided:  rain-light counter rocks-trees or  trees counter rain-light-rocks or--   Myriads of counter processions  crossing and recrossing, regaining  the advantage, buying here, selling there  --You are sold cheap everywhere in town!--  lingering, touching fingers, withdrawing  gathering forces into blares, hummocks,  peaks and rivers--rivers meeting rock  --I wish that you were lying there dead  and I sitting here beside you.--  It's the grey moon--over and over.  It's the clay of these parts.  O—eh—lee! La—la!  Donna! Donna!  Blue is the sky of Palermo;  Blue is the little bay;  And dost thou remember the orange and fig,  The lively sun and the sea breeze at evening?  Hey—la!  Donna! Donna! Maria!   O—eh—li! La—la!  Donna! Donna!  Gray is the sky of this land.  Gray and green is the water.  I see no trees, dost thou? The wind  Is cold for the big woman there with the candle.  Hey—la!  Donna! Donna! Maria!   O—eh—li! O—la!  Donna! Donna!  I sang thee by the blue waters;  I sing thee here in the gray dawning.  Kiss, for I put down my guitar;  I’ll sing thee more songs after the landing.  O Jesu, I love thee!  Donna! Donna! Maria! All those treasures that lie in the little bolted box whose tiny space is  Mightier than the room of the stars, being secret and filled with dreams:  All those treasures—I hold them in my hand—are straining continually  Against the sides and the lid and the two ends of the little box in which I guard them;  Crying that there is no sun come among them this great while and that they weary of shining;  Calling me to fold back the lid of the little box and to give them sleep finally.   But the night I am hiding from them, dear friend, is far more desperate than their night!  And so I take pity on them and pretend to have lost the key to the little house of my treasures;  For they would die of weariness were I to open it, and not be merely faint and sleepy  As they are now. Oh strong-ridged and deeply hollowed  nose of mine! what will you not be smelling?  What tactless asses we are, you and I, boney nose,  always indiscriminate, always unashamed,  and now it is the souring flowers of the bedreggled  poplars: a festering pulp on the wet earth  beneath them. With what deep thirst  we quicken our desires  to that rank odor of a passing springtime!  Can you not be decent? Can you not reserve your ardors  for something less unlovely? What girl will care  for us, do you think, if we continue in these ways?  Must you taste everything? Must you know everything?  Must you have a part in everything? Nude bodies like peeled logs sometimes give off a sweetest odor, man and woman  under the trees in full excess matching the cushion of  aromatic pine-drift fallen threaded with trailing woodbine a sonnet might be made of it  Might be made of it! odor of excess odor of pine needles, odor of peeled logs, odor of no odor other than trailing woodbine that  has no odor, odor of a nude woman sometimes, odor of a man. By the road to the contagious hospital under the surge of the blue mottled clouds driven from the northeast -- a cold wind. Beyond, the waste of broad, muddy fields brown with dried weeds, standing and fallen  patches of standing water the scattering of tall trees  All along the road the reddish purplish, forked, upstanding, twiggy stuff of bushes and small trees with dead, brown leaves under them leafless vines --  Lifeless in appearance, sluggish dazed spring approaches --  They enter the new world naked, cold, uncertain of all save that they enter. All about them the cold, familiar wind --  Now the grass, tomorrow the stiff curl of wildcarrot leaf  One by one objects are defined -- It quickens: clarity, outline of leaf  But now the stark dignity of entrance -- Still, the profound change has come upon them: rooted they grip down and begin to awaken Where shall I find you—  You, my grotesque fellows  That I seek everywhere  To make up my band?  None, not one  With the earthy tastes I require:  The burrowing pride that rises  Subtly as on a bush in May.   Where are you this day—  You, my seven-year locusts  With cased wings?  Ah, my beauties, how I long!  That harvest  That shall be your advent—  Thrusting up through the grass,  Up under the weeds,  Answering me—  That shall be satisfying!  The light shall leap and snap  That day as with a million lashes!   Oh, I have you!  Yes, you are about me in a sense,  Playing under the blue pools  That are my windows.  But they shut you out still  There in the half light—  For the simple truth is  That though I see you clear enough …  You are not there.   It is not that—it is you,  You I want, my companions!  God! if I could only fathom  The guts of shadows!—  You to come with me  Poking into negro houses  With their gloom and smell!  In among children  Leaping around a dead dog!  Mimicking  Onto the lawns of the rich!  You!  To go with me a-tip-toe  Head down under heaven,  Nostrils lipping the wind! The murderer's little daughter  who is barely ten years old  jerks her shoulders  right and left  so as to catch a glimpse of me  without turning round.  Her skinny little arms  wrap themselves  this way then that  reversely about her body! Nervously  she crushes her straw hat  about her eyes  and tilts her head  to deepen the shadow—  smiling excitedly!   As best as she can  she hides herself  in the full sunlight  her cordy legs writhing  beneath the little flowered dress  that leaves them bare  from mid-thigh to ankle—   Why has she chosen me  for the knife  that darts along her smile? From the Nativity which I have already celebrated the Babe in its Mother's arms  the Wise Men in their stolen splendor and Joseph and the soldiery  attendant with their incredulous faces make a scene copied we'll say  from the Italian masters but with a difference the mastery  of the painting and the mind the resourceful mind that governed the whole  the alert mind dissatisfied with what it is asked to and cannot do  accepted the story and painted it in the brilliant colors of the chronicler  the downcast eyes of the Virgin as a work of art for profound worship You Communists and Republicans! all you Germans and Frenchmen! you corpses and quickeners! The stars are about to melt and fall on you in tears.  Get ready! Get ready! you Papists and Protestants! you whores and you virtuous! The moon will be bread and drop presently into your baskets.  Friends and those who despise and detest us! Adventists and those who believe nothing! Get ready for the awakening. Mr T. bareheaded in a soiled undershirt his hair standing out on all sides stood on his toes heels together arms gracefully for the moment  curled above his head. Then he whirled about bounded into the air and with an entrechat perfectly achieved completed the figure. My mother taken by surprise where she sat in her invalid's chair was left speechless. Bravo! she cried at last and clapped her hands. The man's wife came from the kitchen: What goes on here? she said. But the show was over. The world begins again!  Not wholly insufflated  the blackbirds in the rain  upon the dead topbranches  of the living tree,  stuck fast to the low clouds,  notate the dawn.  Their shrill cries sound  announcing appetite  and drop among the bending roses  and the dripping grass. It is cold. The white moon  is up among her scattered stars--  like the bare thighs of  the Police Sergeant's wife--among  her five children . . .  No answer. Pale shadows lie upon  the frosted grass. One answer:  It is midnight, it is still  and it is cold . . . !  White thights of the sky! a  new answer out of the depths of  my male belly: In April . . .  In April I shall see again--In April!  the round and perfects thighs  of the Police Sergeant's wife  perfect still after many babies.  Oya! Summer ! the painting is organized about a young  reaper enjoying his noonday rest completely  relaxed from his morning labors sprawled  in fact sleeping unbuttoned on his back  the women have brought him his lunch perhaps  a spot of wine they gather gossiping under a tree  whose shade carelessly he does not share the  resting center of their workaday world. The crowd at the ball game  is moved uniformly   by a spirit of uselessness  which delights them—   all the exciting detail  of the chase   and the escape, the error  the flash of genius—   all to no end save beauty  the eternal—   So in detail they, the crowd,  are beautiful   for this  to be warned against   saluted and defied—  It is alive, venomous   it smiles grimly  its words cut—   The flashy female with her  mother, gets it—   The Jew gets it straight— it  is deadly, terrifying—   It is the Inquisition, the  Revolution   It is beauty itself  that lives   day by day in them  idly—   This is  the power of their faces   It is summer, it is the solstice  the crowd is   cheering, the crowd is laughing  in detail   permanently, seriously  without thought In Breughel's great picture, The Kermess, the dancers go round, they go round and around, the squeal and the blare and the tweedle of bagpipes, a bugle and fiddles tipping their bellies, (round as the thick- sided glasses whose wash they impound)  their hips and their bellies off balance to turn them. Kicking and rolling about the Fair Grounds, swinging their butts, those shanks must be sound to bear up under such rollicking measures, prance as they dance in Breughel's great picture, The Kermess A three-day-long rain from the east--  an terminable talking, talking  of no consequence--patter, patter, patter.  Hand in hand little winds  blow the thin streams aslant.  Warm. Distance cut off. Seclusion.  A few passers-by, drawn in upon themselves,  hurry from one place to another.  Winds of the white poppy! there is no escape!--  An interminable talking, talking,  talking . . .it has happened before.  Backward, backward, backward. Vast and grey, the sky is a simulacrum to all but him whose days are vast and grey and -- In the tall, dried grasses a goat stirs with nozzle searching the ground. My head is in the air but who am I . . . ? -- and my heart stops amazed at the thought of love vast and grey yearning silently over me. Upon the table in their bowl  in violent disarray  of yellow sprays, green spikes  of leaves, red pointed petals  and curled heads of blue  and white among the litter  of the forks and crumbs and plates  the flowers remain composed.  Coolly their colloquy continues  above the coffee and loud talk  grown frail as vaudeville. I feel the caress of my own fingers  on my own neck as I place my collar  and think pityingly  of the kind women I have known. Among the rain  and lights  I saw the figure 5  in gold  on a red  firetruck  moving  tense  unheeded  to gong clangs  siren howls  and wheels rumbling  through the dark city. Constantly near you, I never in my entire sixty-four years knew you so well as yesterday or half so well. We talked. you were never  so lucid, so disengaged from all exigencies of place and time. We talked of ourselves, intimately, a thing never heard between us. How long have we waited? almost a hundred years.  You said, Unless there is some spark, some spirit we keep within ourselves, a life, a continuing life's impossible-and it is all we have. There is no other life, only the one. The world of the spirits that come afterward is the same as our own, just like you sitting there they come and talk to me, just the same.  They come to bother us. Why? I said. I don't know. Perhaps to find out what we are doing. Jealous, do you think? I don't know. I don't know why they should want to come back. I was reading about some men who had been buried under a mountain, I said to her, and one of them came back after two months,  digging himself out. It was in Switzerland, you remember? Of course I remember. The villagers tho't it was a ghost coming down to complain. They were frightened. They do come, she said, what you call my 'visions.' I talk to them just as I am talking to you. I see them plainly.  Oh if I could only read! You don't know what adjustments I have made. All I can do is to try to live over again what I knew when your brother and you were children-but I can't always succeed. Tell me about the horse show. I have been waiting all week to hear about it.  Mother darling, I wasn't able to get away. Oh that's too bad. It was just a show; they make the horses walk up and down to judge them by their form. Oh is that all? I tho't it was something else. Oh they jump and run too. I wish you had been  there, I was so interested to hear about it. In the flashes and black shadows  of July  the days, locked in each other's arms,  seem still  so that squirrels and colored birds  go about at ease over  the branches and through the air.   Where will a shoulder split or  a forehead open and victory be?   Nowhere.  Both sides grow older.   And you may be sure  not one leaf will lift itself  from the ground  and become fast to a twig again. The over-all picture is winter icy mountains in the background the return from the hunt it is toward evening from the left sturdy hunters lead in their pack the inn-sign hanging from a broken hinge is a stag a crucifix between his antlers the cold inn yard is deserted but for a huge bonfire that flares wind-driven tended by women who cluster about it to the right beyond the hill is a pattern of skaters Brueghel the painter concerned with it all has chosen a winter-struck bush for his foreground to complete the picture The whole process is a lie, unless, crowned by excess, It break forcefully, one way or another, from its confinement— or find a deeper well. Antony and Cleopatra were right; they have shown the way. I love you or I do not live at all.  Daffodil time is past. This is summer, summer! the heart says, and not even the full of it. No doubts are permitted— though they will come and may before our time overwhelm us. We are only mortal but being mortal can defy our fate. We may by an outside chance even win! We do not look to see jonquils and violets come again but there are, still, the roses!  Romance has no part in it. The business of love is cruelty which, by our wills, we transform to live together. It has its seasons, for and against, whatever the heart fumbles in the dark to assert toward the end of May. Just as the nature of briars is to tear flesh, I have proceeded through them. Keep the briars out, they say. You cannot live and keep free of briars.  Children pick flowers. Let them. Though having them in hand they have no further use for them but leave them crumpled at the curb's edge.  At our age the imagination across the sorry facts lifts us to make roses stand before thorns. Sure love is cruel and selfish and totally obtuse— at least, blinded by the light, young love is. But we are older, I to love and you to be loved, we have, no matter how, by our wills survived to keep the jeweled prize always at our finger tips. We will it so and so it is past all accident. There were some dirty plates and a glass of milk beside her on a small table near the rank, disheveled bed--  Wrinkled and nearly blind she lay and snored rousing with anger in her tones to cry for food,  Gimme something to eat-- They're starving me-- I'm all right--I won't go to the hospital.No, no, no  Give me something to eat! Let me take you to the hospital, I said and after you are well  you can do as you please. She smiled, Yes you do what you please first then I can do what I please--  Oh, oh, oh! she cried as the ambulance men lifted her to the stretcher-- Is this what you call  making me comfortable?  By now her mind was clear-- Oh you think you're smart you young people,  she said, but I'll tell you you don't know anything. Then we started. On the way  we passed a long row of elms. She looked at them awhile out of the ambulance window and said,  What are all those fuzzy looking things out there? Trees?Well, I'm tired  of them and rolled her head away. Here it is spring again  and I still a young man!  I am late at my singing.  The sparrow with the black rain on his breast  has been at his cadenzas for two weeks past:  What is it that is dragging at my heart?  The grass by the back door  is stiff with sap.  The old maples are opening  their branches of brown and yellow moth-flowers.  A moon hangs in the blue  in the early afternoons over the marshes.  I am late at my singing. School is over. It is too hot  to walk at ease. At ease  in light frocks they walk the streets  to while the time away.  They have grown tall. They hold  pink flames in their right hands.  In white from head to foot,  with sidelong, idle look--  in yellow, floating stuff,  black sash and stockings--  touching their avid mouths  with pink sugar on a stick--  like a carnation each holds in her hand--  they mount the lonely street. Some find The Light in literature;

Others in fine art,

And some persist in being sure

The Light shines in the heart.

 

Some find The Light in alcohol;

Some, in the sexual spark;

Some never find The Light at all

And make do with the dark,

 

And one might guess that these would be

A gloomy lot indeed,

But, no, The Light they never see

They think they do not need.
My life is almost over; that's a fact

Statistically derived but simply true;

I look into the mirror, but it's cracked

 

And so reflects two, three, or more, that lack

Cohesion.  Which one's goal shall I pursue—

My life is almost over; that's a fact—

 

In time remaining?  Luggage largely packed,

Past boxed and crated, little left to do,

I look into the mirror, but it's cracked

 

And won't be fixed and always did refract

The one before it into at least two.

My life is almost over; that's a fact,

 

But life cannot be lived in the abstract

And begs for certainties that it once knew:

I look into the mirror, but it's cracked;

 

I look away in search of the exact;

Nights melt the shadow shrinking from my view;

I look into the mirror, but it's cracked.

My life is almost over; that's my fact.
Alfie, honest mistresses are lauded;

The presents they receive they earn, but you,

Who lead me on with lies, leave me defrauded.

My anti-mistress, brazen what you do;

You keep my gifts but, suddenly demure,

Renege on my reward.  Either be chaste

Before accepting fees or be the whore

That you pretend, your total body placed

Where just your mouth is.  Greed and "virtue" make

Strange bedfellows, each sure the other's fake.
Coincidence.  Perhaps coincidence

Explains it all.  Why look far out, in deep

For mystical solutions to make sense

Of how a dream disturbed more than my sleep—

A dream in which you sat bolt upright on

A Windsor chair and wore a long blue dress

(Ornamented with a white chiffon)

And on your visage bore a dark distress

And said your dog was dead?  When I awoke,

I thought the dream an impetus to phone,

And when I did, the first words that you spoke,

Through sobs, were that your cat had died.  Your tone

Was as it had been in my dream, which plain

Coincidence tries too hard to explain.
Ready to disembark,

We're mostly puff and grey.

Who else can sail this ark?

Who else afford such play?

 

Our bags are overpacked

Protruding like our flesh,

The proof of nothing lacked

That money can enmesh.

 

Before we booked, we viewed

Pictures in which the young

And svelte declared the moods

We hoped to move among.

 

We fidget, wait to be

Called back to land once more,

Selves dragged from the sea

We meant to leave on shore.
As one who, reading late into the night,

When overcome by sleep, turns off the light

And yields whatever he can sense by sight

 

To what the gates of ivory or of horn

Will send him, sightless as a child unborn,

To goad, amuse, remind, reveal or warn,

 

So may I turn a light off and embrace

With resignation, better still with grace,

The dreamless sleep that all awake must face.

 
 Where did you go, my dear, my day;

Where, oh where, did you go?

To market, to maker of market, to say

Too much of the little I know.

 

Where did you go, my dear, my year;

Why did you flee from me?

I went from here to there to here

Loitering breathlessly.

 

Where did you go, my life, my own,

Decades gone in a wink?

Some things are better left unknown

Some thoughts too thick to think.
When dreams have turned to dust and dust to slime;

When all you ever were or hoped to be

Appears as no more than a jest of time,

A foolish jest, a tasteless parody

 

On some unlikely fiction; when not just

Your dear pretensions but your best ideals

Have been ground down into an acrid dust

That you are forced to eat for all your meals;

 

When—oh, but what can metaphor provide

Sufficient in its scope to comprehend

The fury never to be satisfied

Of one betrayed by a once-trusted friend?
I must choose life, and it is here with you

When with a hair-tossed flourish, and all bare,

You take on its stand the candle and walk through

Dark rooms to the unlit bathroom, where we

Like figures from some medieval mystery

Take a hot bath together, whispering, aware

As here we are wreathed in perfumed steam,

Of the whipping night outside and the long scream

Of the gale. There's nothing else to be satisfied

After our hours together, except we be

Cleansed and calmed and, fragrant, dried,

Then wrapped in dreamless sleep.  And suddenly

Poor Yeats, you say, besotted with Maud Gonne!

All those letters!  Between us, hardly one.
We met that grey dull evening on the east shore.

Roaring round the bend he came, flat out

at fifteen miles an hour, and stopped.  We had to shout

till he turned off his engine.  It's going to pour

it looks like:  me.  Oa, I'm haardly cancerned

thee night wi weather, man!  he said, flat cap askew.

Gap-toothed smile.  Torched cheeks.  Eyes' Atlantic blue.

Hiv you seen any?  Weemun?  Whisky burned

its golden road in him, and he would search.

's that wun, man? – the shore's dark speck.

Not waiting a reply, through the bright wreck

of that grey evening, he roared off, with a lurch.

His tractor almost reared on its back tyres.

Fifteen miles an hour flat out, parched by amber fires.
Some lines to you in Habbie stanza,

A wee taut daft extravaganza,

Lubricated by three canza

            Scottish beer-O;

Slug such here, and any man's a

            Brief mad hero!

 

I'm pleased to see your verses, poet

Of certain gift and graced to know it,

For lacking that, you cannot grow it,

            Regardless;

No matter how you dung or hoe it,

            Growth will not bless.

 

Your Sunset at the Getty's fine.

In fact I'd almost wish it mine,

So taut and spare in word and line,

            Clean-flowing;

Dark poem of all pomp's decline—

            The end of sowing!

 

No art without such knowledge can

Matter a damn to thinking man

Whether in farm or caravan,

            That is all one;

That knowledged edge is better than

            Bland chirping on.

 

Your mind is fogged with the barley-bree?

Frankly, it's the same for me.

The luminous masters' verses flee

            The whiskied brain-box;

Preparation for the threnody

            Of the stopped clocks.

 

Bunnahabhain and Black Label

Cowp poets in below the table,

Gift them with the tongues of Babel,

            Ranting, loud;

Yet doubly—though barely able

            To stand up—proud!

 

Whisky, grief's companion, came

To stake its visionary claim

And show the limits of Earth-fame

            In pickled brains;

That roof, nor page, nor face, nor name

            In time remains.

 

The world's a larach at the last,

All splendour's true iconoclast,

Open to the gutting blast

            And constellations;

Each future's seed its waiting past,

            And silenced nations.

 

But what of that, we've verse to make

Through city ruin and earthquake

For little but the making's sake

            When all is said:

So down with gloom, the old heartbreak,

            For verse is bread!

 

Your syntax punches on the nose,

While mine jouks to avoid such blows,

Not "strained"—your word—though far from prose,

            As I admit;

Though often with this poem's flows

            I score a hit!

 

I want my poems to all be knock-outs,

Oases in a land of droughts,

Bright axe-strokes in my mind of doubts,

            As Murphy's are;

But ach, my own conviction shouts

            Its thrawn exemplar!

 

Hell, I'll have to leave that style to you,

Be to my complex syntax true

As world is full of many a hue,

            Forby black/white;

As the world's ship has a motley crew,

            So poets write.

 

Yet this raised glass to wish you, there

Across three thousand miles of air

In those sight-losing vistas, where

            Your each verse ploughs,

Good whisky, poems, no despair—

            And happy sows.
            A bonny night.  I step outside and gaze,

Head back in autumn dark, up into space,

Where stars between the clouds burn with quiet praise,

And think for whatever reason of your face.

 

Fine thoughts below those glittering Pleiades.

Regrets.  Goodbyes.  The largeness of the night

Summons easy nostalgia for futilities,

Free from the searching glare of window light.

 

But what's this, suddenly, about my feet,

Rubbing my ankles?  It's the old, fat black tom

Unusually affectionate, startling from

Revery, ragged-eared, with his small thunder.

Is it mere food, or love he wants, I wonder?

His presence somehow makes the night complete.
Rattle down the shutters, cast away the key,

Relinquish the rivers at last to the sea,

    Old Jock of Lochranza,

    Taut as a stanza,

Can come no more for me.

 

My eager sole visitor was planted this week,

Six decades beyond his potency's peak;

    He was the salty, last

    Proof of my glorious past;

From here, the sea looks bleak.

 

It's out with the pension, no more red heels

To clack down the pier among wet nets and creels;

    I can't turn a head

    (When they are all dead)

From the sea's late purples and steels.

 

Hang up my whip, my scents, the tools of my trade,

That kept the fish-scaled men unstaid;

    From the tedium of wintered lives,

    Beyond the scowls of island wives,

Released them, glad-afraid.

 

Young men of Lamlash, Blackwaterfoot, Corrie,

Be you built like a rabbit, a shark, or a lorry,

    It's off with this make-up

    That let your dads wake up,

And I am sorry.
Justin plays with light from space

   That catches his gold watch's gleam.

   He angles that trout-rapid beam

With a flick from cup, to wall, to face.

 

Eight minutes, ray, from sun to here

   You sped across the airless dark,

   Unborn until your brilliant mark

And welcome in our atmosphere

 

From one brown boy who toys with you

   Arriving, now, as minutes pass.

   Pure energy through common glass,

Griefless, and forever new.
The longbow, one would say, is natural;

Is an appropriate technology.

The crossbow is the downward path to Krupp.

It has a trigger, eyepiece; has a stock

Firearms have learned from.  One would say.  One would,

However, be quite wrong, as Baron Krupp

Might point out.  Compound bows are anything

But natural, as they are laminate,

And what is natural about a graft?

We have, as usual, let sentiment

Define the natural.  Our sympathies

Are not with progress but with Robin Hood,

Who is himself mere envy wearing tights.

What has redistribution of the wealth

To do with archery?  It was the Krupps

Who had the world's first pension plan, and built

Its first real worker housing.  Had sick leave?

We cannot speculate what was the life

Of Merry Men grown old.  The arrow flies,

An infantry's or Time's, and how the wound

Arrives is of no consequence.  Had Cain

No weapons but his hands he would be Cain,

And Abel dead of strangulation.  Child

Of nature, little boy of five or six,

Why have you pulled the rubber suction cup

From off your arrow and begun to sharpen it?
Forgiven, unforgiven, they who drive the nails

Know what they do:  they hammer.

If they doubt, if their vocation fails,

They only swell the number,

 

Large already, of the mutineers and thieves.

With only chance and duty

There to cloak them, they elect and nail.

The vinegar will pity.

 

Judas who sops, their silver his accuser, errs

To blame the unrewarded.

They guard the branch he hangs from.  Guilt occurs

Where it can be afforded.

 
 Our genes have junk in them.  Not all the messages

That DNA contains does RNA read out.

Inheritance has drastic editing.  What, though,

Are unused possibilities the relic of?

A better us, or worse?  Are we as we exist

Young Dr. Jekyll failed or full-blown Hyde avoided?

(If avoided).  As of now we cannot know.

All we can say is, both the shadow archetype

And Doppelgänger, and the succubus as well,

Hang near us.  Life, genetic outcome of a code

That has its blind spots, parallels what it is not—

An endless replicase of what it has destroyed

To be.  Dumb corpse one carries, Siamese dark self

Whose only life is to embarrass, in our joint

Past where did we in aim diverge?  Is it that aim

Was in itself the agency of difference?

Ambition's never quite evaded progeny,

A shadow is by definition follower.

But in the hidden mirror of the goal suppressed,

What proud construct of junk discarded bides his time?
The drumbeat sets the oar-stroke, cruelly;

But then we do not choose our heartbeat.

 

Manacles confine us.  Who, however,

Can be really said to venture?

 

If in the battle it is row or drown,

We row.  The lash is often on us.

 

It is an incentive, in its way.

The rowing builds up shoulder muscles.

 

I've a tan.  I look at backs a lot.

I deeply understand teamwork.

 

I live in filth.  Was I fastidious

When I was free?  Here sharks will have us;

 

It's not as though elsewhere there are not jackals.

Bear up.  Hand and heart grow calloused.
Neutral and dull, the bricks that serve as shores

Enforce their color on the channeled water;

And if a distant movement, as of oars,

Has made that mirrored brick, its mortar scatter,

Now, as the soon abated force goes slack,

A leveling inertia lays them back.

 

Surface on surface to a depth of peace–

How little stirred to be so far from stagnant!

As if reflection and its slow release,

Its visions idly on that water regnant,

Themselves were substance and renewal; beat

Or silence; action, and the act complete.

 

As if our shadows, lengthening below,

Received us bodily to calm, to vision,

Always to rock with lifted oars; where, low

Beside the mirror, sense and its precision

Give to the arching sky, the dormered town,

A motion one brick up and one brick down.
The insect born of royalty has Marx

And worker housing as a life; has sex

Or clover honey to his pleasure, as

Have we.  The parrot speaks.  All use:  the ant

The aphid and the crocodile the bird.

What then is human wholly?  Is it heart?

Fidelity exists in any dog.

Good Doctor who have found your Missing Link,

On your return what will you have him be?

Free agent or a tenant in a cage?

 

A simple test will serve.  It more or less

Is this:  can he be taught a game of chance?

It is not possible, you must agree,

To think of animals as gambling.  Odds,

Except for us, do not exist.  An ape

Assumes always his jump will reach the limb.

For all his skill, he cannot cut his loss.

We, on the other hand, at our most threatened

Turn instinctively ... to Reason?  No.

To Fortune, as a mindlessness of mind.

The random that we create creates us.

In overcrowded lifeboats, we draw lots.
He has become, in death, the dust that yields

the harvest of a thousand killing fields.

 
 The flautist of North Station,

playing Amazing Grace,

will get, for compensation,

some quarters in a case

 

on which, for sympathy,

he's taped a picture of

his daughters, so that we

may see he plays for love;

 

may see he plays for free,

while someone in a suit

takes up the melody

our man plays on the flute

 

and starts to whistle it

as he departs the station,

bound for a world unfit

for any such salvation.

 
 Go to the prosperous city,

for I have taken pity

 

on its inhabitants,

who drink and feast and dance

 

all night in lighted halls

yet know their bacchanals

 

lead nowhere in the end.

Go to them, now, commend,

 

to those with ears to hear,

a lifestyle more austere.

 

Tell all my children tired

of happiness desired

 

and never had that there

is solace in despair.

 

Say there is consolation

in ruins and ruination

 

beneath a harvest moon

that is itself a ruin,

 

comfort, however cold,

in grievances recalled

 

beside a fire dying

from lack of love and trying.
The dead, we say, are the departed.  They

pass on, they pass away, they leave behind

family, friends, the whole of humankind—

They have gone on before.  Or so we say.

 

But could it be the opposite is true?

Now, as I stand here in the graveled drive

at moonrise, unaccountably alive,

I have the sense that it is we, not you,

 

who are departing, spun at breakneck speed

through space and time, while you stay where you are—

intimate of dark matter and bright star—

and watch the brilliant, faithless world recede.

The Magic Circle

 

1.  Autumn

 

Early this morning I glanced out the window

and saw her underneath the maple tree.

She was as pale as that white gown of hers.

Hard to believe it's been a year already.

I waved.  She turned away, paused for a moment,

then walked into the mist that marked the border

between my backyard and what lay beyond.

Proserpine, I called, but she was gone.

I am convinced that this was Proserpine

and not, as Mrs. Grandison maintains,

some nut escaped from the state hospital.

All Hallow E'en approaches.  Skeletons

hang from the trees along my street and ghosts,

emboldened, haunt the front yards in broad daylight.

 

 

2. Winter

 

The swallows sleep beneath the river ice.

The salamanders whisper in the fire.

Hermes Trismestigus' new work is open

at one of its obscurer passages,

of which there are intolerably many.

I take a break to watch the local news.

Toward midnight, I collect my charts and go

to make my nightly survey of the heavens.

Mercifully they're still there.  One of the saddest

developments I've witnessed in my time

has been astrology's decline from science

to fortune telling of the basest sort,

its long eclipse by disciplines that measure

not meaning, now, but distance, size and mass ...

As if mere matter mattered in itself.

 

 

3. Spring

 

Bears wake from their long hibernation, now,

hirsute initiates with tales to tell

to those with ears to listen.  Proserpine

returns as well, and Christ.  And may not I?

The budding trees and the returning birds

figure the transmigration of the soul

so beautifully I wish that I could die

and see the world again through infant eyes.

I intimate these things to Ed, my mailman,

who nods politely.  Ed is not about

to jeopardize his Christmas tip (last year

an old tin can transmuted into gold)

regardless how much of a character

he and the other villagers may think me.

 

 

4. Summer

 

Little did I know when I concocted

my potion that, although one may stop time,

it is impossible to turn it back.

Youth, they say, is wasted on the young.

Perhaps I'll have a tee-shirt made that reads,

Eternal life is wasted on the old.

And yet the world is no less beautiful.

Toward evening dew collects upon the lawn,

rising again as fireflies.  Above

the white New England church a flock of swallows

copies a Greek text out in Arabic,

and in the maple trees a light breeze stirs,

sounding for all the world like water falling

distantly off the edges of the world.
Hardy, in his great poem "Hap," maintains

he would be comforted to find his pains

 

were not what they in fact appear to be—

expected outcomes of "Crass Casualty"—

 

but the fulfillment of some higher will

intent on doing Thomas Hardy ill.

 

ii.

 

Aneas, faced with overwhelming odds,

saw in a vision how the very gods

 

whom he had served now helped his foes destroy

the walls and towers and palaces of Troy.

 

There is in Vergil, though, no evidence

this vision comforted the Trojan prince.
  How to explain?

The wind sighs in the trees,

leafing through memories

      of last night's rain.
      It came so sudden, so miraculous.

Is it a tone I hear, a glint I see,

that only passes by me in its rush

to vanish, dissipate, no longer be?

 

A nothing has caressed with friendly hand

my hand, which just now was so white with frost.

Was it a greeting from some unknown land,

a spirit-letter in the latest post

 

from one who knew me but kept his peace,

kept hidden from me, someone so sublime,

so far beyond this thing that they call space,

so far beyond this thing that they call time.
I do not believe in the fox that comes

stealing between the close-knit pines,

he is perfection, and, as such, beyond me;

 

he comes, nonetheless, at nightfall, quiet,

all but silent, quiet as

spiritus in the pines, say, or this moonrise,

 

comes through the cooling grass, the garden,

bows or assumes his hunting posture

in going past our statue of St. Francis,

 

poor Francis, with both hands extended,

the right to bless, the left to beg,

the Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away ...

 

I am picking wild strawberries when he comes,

my fingertips and lips incarnadine,

the taste already fading on my tongue.By August I noticed the lack of care,

And now in September I feel the despair;

The rusting tools, the vanished rows,

Reveal an all too brief affair.

 

The hopeful beginning has come to a close

As a meeting place for sinister crows

And devious weeds planning for when

They’ll make this a plot where anything goes.

 

What kind of errant husbandman

Would let it fall to field again?

I think I know, I’ve met a few:

A fine egalitarian—

 

The type of man, a touch askew,

Who holds the universal view,

"To everything, a heart be true,"

But saves desertion just for you.

I thought I could imagine, looking down,

The field had grown a little different from

The weight of us; the ground indented where,

Upon this hill, this grass—that blade still bent—

For just a kiss, we deserted all the world.

Looking up, I saw an open place

Less secret than the one that I remembered;

The eyes that would remark could see this spot

From an embarrassment of vantage points.

Our privacy had been a phantom thing.

Back then we hadn't cared who saw us, lost

To all the fields of view except our own.

I marveled at our heedless indiscretion.

I wished only to be there, exposed again.

Come sit with me and tell me of

Your sense of what is and isn’t love.

Keep talking as we bide our time;

Keep talking; wile away the hours.

Though certain, sure, of reason’s powers,

I’ll listen for the slanted rhyme

That every hesitation makes

When calculating mortal stakes;

It is the lingering of an eye,

Or maybe the lingering of a sigh,

Or the lingering of a careless touch

That lingers there a bit too much.

I think I’ll stay regardless of

What you say is and isn’t love.
While one hand is content to touch, admire

A balanced, careful weave—preserve for viewing

The beauty and the boundaries of desire—

The other hand is busy at undoing.

The quiet hand counsels restraint; afraid

To wreck the composition of composure,

It's wary of destruction just for fun.

The other wants to slip between each braid,

To tease apart the strands, let run, spill over,

Release, unbind, what was so neatly done.

Your urgent kiss decides which hand is played.

A gentle pull brings argument to closure.

Surprised, my hands attempt to catch your hair:

It falls the way the rain lets go the air.

 In a fan shaped chair beside the sand,

(With your long, lovely, careful hand)

You write and finger pages, glance,

As ocean and the shore romance;

An ambient motion to compose,

For some sweet purpose, we suppose.

 

The rhythms here urge all comply;

Some pressing need for the sea to try,

And the patient land to give it back;

It is not desire that they lack;

An eye to open and to close,

For some sweet purpose, we suppose.

 

But oh, for honor, never us.

A literary love it was,

A literary love remains;

It is the writing that sustains.

Unpicked, we shall describe the rose,

For some sweet purpose, we suppose.On roads within the river’s reach

There comes a careless turn on each,

Where you can see, below, the town.

I’ve often wondered what I’d find,

A parlor game of a certain kind,

If I took the exit, right and down:

 

Along with steam there ought to be

A red brick mill—a factory

That was built to last, that lost the fight—

On a River Street that’s never far

From water and a corner bar,

By a rusting bridge, by a blinking light.

 

I’d settle there on a vacant stool,

Try not to look the foreign fool,

And when the snowfall comes that night,

I’d find a girl with auburn hair;

A girl who might take up the dare,

Deserving better, by her right.

 

We’d hear a distant whistle rise,

See glasses drained with weary sighs,

And talk in earnest of our plight.

I’d ask her then to leave with me;

To cross the bridge where we’d be free

Of limits, and that blinking light.

 

But when she hears the whistle blow,

And glances at the snow that sweeps

Down empty streets as her town sleeps,

The girl will shake her head and say:

"A part of me so wants to stay,

 

Another me would surely go."

 

I’d like to answer to her fear—

Another me would surely care

Enough to stop and visit there—

But the road and I are in pursuit

Of other ends; the game is moot.

 

I understand you well, my dear.So quick the snow is gone when winter dies,

Revealing all of fall’s neglect for me

To rake and stack and sort, and drag away;

Its only saving grace, I get to clear

The corner of the yard where I can see

Your house between the cedars on the hill.

 

I look to find an open window there,

The sign that spring is really here to stay.

And if I do, I take my time, with care,

So if the linen curtains breathe aside,

I’ll hear you play, again, the old piano,

Against the corner of that sun-lit room.

 

I’m never close enough to tell how well,

Or if with new found joy, you move the keys,

But that you play at all is good enough

For one alone with work to do on days

When half the world is coming back to love,

When half the yard still hides beneath the leaves.

 

Now spring again, it happened just today;

The window up, your music drifted out.

I heard it through the peepers and the brook.

It rose with all the new heat off the fields

And broke the clouds in pieces to the blue

That disregards the end of anything.

 

If I did get the chance, I’d tell you this:

If there were children here they’d feel it too.

Each tickled by the notes in turn they’d run;

They’d run from tree to puddle, tree and back.

They’d laugh in time with music from your hands,

And help me gather up all this debris.

 We met against the foot of Cabot Hill,

Near three o’clock, in a sudden squall of snow.

Alone since I had shut Old French’s gate,

I saw no need to rush a friendly greeting.

 

And he agreed.

 

He kept in silence down the path, while I

Kept coming up with something I might say;

If wishing could not make him go away,

I hoped that he could bear the quiet less.

 

I folded first.

 

"Bit cold?" I ventured to a hat, a face.

"Well," he slowed down a step, but didn’t stop,

"Not all that bad a day for January;

The kids are still about on Higgin’s Pond."

 

I nodded back.

 

Comforted by the thought that he had been

Where I was going, I began a question,

But he had passed, a careful distance formed,

And did not turn around to hear me start.

 

Then he was gone;

 

A cameo behind a curtain white,

He strode into the deepest part of winter,

Another ghost returning home that night.

I could have told him much about the way.

 

He didn’t ask.

 

As I moved further up the path, and heard

The first faint filing sounds of skates on ice—

And felt again the sleep of buried woods

Not all that close to home—I was glad we met

 

In passing.She stopped me just inside the door so I

Would know some news for me that couldn't wait:

"Just met a man you know—a Clarence Ward.

I was looking out the window when he knocked.

I was waiting on the flowers for the table,

For you to cross the field.  It startled me."

 

"Strange hour for a visit.  What brought him by?"

 

"He wants our vote for road agent this time."

 

"Well, it is the only job worth having here."

 

"Don't start.  You like it here.  Let me go on.

I didn’t want to leave the window for the door

And must have had a frown when he began,

Because he took a step back off the porch,

And put his thumbs in his overalls, like this."

She did a perfect imitation of

The man whose farm is out on Fremont Road.

"He ended up too far away to part

With flyers on the things he'd do for less;

Just started in:  'Hello, my name is Clarence Ward

And I'd like to be the road agent again.'

Said he 'knows the importance of a road done right.'

Truth is, I do believe he is sincere."

 

It was something about the way I know she turns

And keeps her head when the story isn’t over.

 

"And that was all?"

 

                               "I wish it was the end,

But the way he stood, and that earnest voice of his

So full of this concern for cracks and holes—

It may have been the way the light was falling

Behind him in the street, I just don’t know—

It made me laugh."

 

                              "You laughed at him out loud?"

 

And all I could think of was her laugh and how,

On some days, you know of all the loves,

Why this one.

 

                       She took the flowers from my hand.

"If you see Clarence, tell him I meant no harm."He does deserve

What money bought:

A rural fling

That’ll grow more rocks

Than native crops.

No lack of nerve,

He’ll post his plot

To say, "It’s mine,"

And hang a sign

That calls it a farm,

Because what’s the harm

In calling a thing

A thing it’s not?This first hot day, under an apple tree,

I feel you as a single drop of sweat

That slips along the middle of my back,

Along my spine, and traces me upon

Some magic paper that could take a man

And make him known, in no particulars,

Just known—as a land for its geography,

But where no valley, town, or mountain could

Explain the whole of it.  I know, and yet,

This one wet fingertip of yours could map

Exactly what I am, and what might be,

And make each blossom hum above my head.These are the dawn thoughts of an atheist

Vaguely embarrassed by what looks like grace:

Though colors don't objectively exist,

And have no form, and occupy no space,

 

So that the carpet's sumptuous dyes must make

Bold arabesques untrue as Santa Claus,

And all Matisse's pigments are a fake

Fobbed off on us by intellectual laws,

 

And neither Fauve nor Esfahan survive

The deconstructed physics of our seeing –

Still we consent, and actively connive

In their unreal adjustments to our being.

 

So the thin rhetoric we use to cope

With being so peculiarly here,

Which cannot but be based on baseless hope

And self-constructed images of fear,

 

Serves to interpret what we are, although

We hesitate to say that what it says

Refers to anything that we could know

Beyond the mind's perpetual paraphrase . . .

 

And sensing that no quiddity remains

Outside the island sorceries of sense

(Queen Circe's simulacra in our brains

That make and unmake all experience)

 

Still, still we long for Light's communion

To pierce and flood our solitary gloom:

Still I am grateful as the rising sun

Picks out the solid colors of my room.Life lies to hand in hoe, spade, pruning-knife,

Plain wooden furniture and wattle walls,

In those unspoken words ‘my husband’, ‘wife’,

In one another’s flesh which still recalls

 

Beneath the map of age their savoured youth.

It is an ambience in which they move

Having no need to grasp or grub for truth;

It is the still persistence of their love.

 

That one should die before the other’s death

And drain the world of meaning is their fear:

Their hope, to draw together their last breath

And leave the sunlight on a common bier.

 

Life is the meaning and the bread they share;

Because they need no Gods, the Gods are there.
The house is one bare room

And only tea is served.

The old man, mild, reserved,

Shuffles into a gloom

Where mattresses are laid.

I sip, grateful for the cool shade.

 

His small son watches me,

Approaches, pertly smiles.

I know that thirty miles

Without a house or tree

Surround their crumbling shack.

I drink again, relax, smile back.

 

Water?  And the boy’s mother?

Both seem impossible –

Yet here my glass is full;

If I ask for another

The boy brings bitter tea

Then grins gap-toothed and begs from me.

 

And love?  Impertinence

To ask.  I could not grieve,

Born here, to have to leave:

But he, a man, years hence,

His life elsewhere, may weep

With need to see his father sleep

 

Again, as now he does,

In careless honesty –

Too old for courtesy –

Oblivious of us.

I pay, and leave the shade,

The dark recess these lives have made.
Who thickens from the shadows as you die?

Who silences your comprehending cry?

 

Emblem of all you lost and now inherit,

What psychopomp attends your parting spirit?

 

The unattainable beloved who

Usurped your life once, and eluded you?

 

The worshipped clerisy, your sacred dead

Oracular inside your dreaming head?

 

They may be there – lost somewhere in the host

Of those who welcome your convulsive ghost.

 

It is a crowd that parts for you, a throng

Among whom now, forever, you belong:

 

They are the pleas you had no patience for,

The pathos you brushed off:  the waiting shore

 

Is filled with those you failed.  You recognize

The sum of what you are in their blank eyes.
Each summer, working there, I’d set off for

The fabled cities – Esfahan, Kashan,

Or Ecbatana, where Hephaestion died,

The poets’ towns – Shiraz and Nayshapour,

Or sites now hardly more than villages

Lapped by the desert, Na’in or Ardestan . . .

 

Their names now mean a dusty backstreet somewhere

Empty and silent in the vivid sunlight,

A narrow way between the high mud walls –

The worn wood of the doors recessed in them

A talisman to conjure and withhold

The life and lives I never touched or knew.

Sometimes I’d hear a voice, a radio,

But mostly there was silence and my shadow

Until a turn would bring me back to people,

Thoroughfares and shops . . .

 

                                              Why is it this that stays,

Those empty afternoons that never led

To anything but seemed their own reward

And are more vivid in my memory

Than mosques, bazaars, companionship, and all

The myriad details of an eight year sojourn;

As if that no epiphany, precisely,

Were the epiphany?  As Hafez has it,

To know you must have gone along that way;

I know they changed my life forever but

I know too that I could not tell myself

– Much less another – what it was I saw,

Or learnt, or brought back from those aimless hours.
The portrait of the princess lies

In scattered fragments on the floor;

Crouched over them a young girl tries

Edges that would not fit before,

 

That sulk recalcitrant . . . ah there

Two pieces kiss:  a greyish mass

That could be clouds or that patch where

Her dress half hides the shadowed grass.

 

The afternoon wears on:  she sifts

And sorts; a piece is placed, withdrawn;

She sits up suddenly and lifts

Impatient arms.  A stifled yawn.

 

And stoops again.  Here no one wins,

It is a world you make and enter.

The edge is finished – now begins

The serious business of the center.

 

A face emerges and young hands

Lie loose against grey silk; the eyes

Are guileless:  almost there, she stands

Bent slightly forward in surprise.
Through high defiles of warehouses that dwarf

With undetermined age the passer-by,

We walk toward the ancient wharf,

Assailed by smells – sweet, pungent, bitter, dry:

 

The perfumed plunder of a continent.

To this shore Roman, Moslem, Christian, Jew

Were gathered by the dense, sharp scent;

Absorbed now in the once-outlandish view

 

They camped by hills their children would call home.

So in the soil blurred Roman coins are found;

Saint Thomas stepped into the foam

And strode ashore, and blessed the acrid ground;

 

Jews settled here when Sion was laid waste,

And Arabs edged tall dhows into the bay,

Dutch burghers felt their northern haste,

Becalmed by slow siestas, ebb away . . .

 

So many faiths and peoples mingle here,

Breathing an air benign with spice and scent,

That we, though strangers, should not fear

To invoke, in honor of our sacrament,

 

The sensual, wise genius of this place.

Approach, kind god:  bestow your gifts on two,

Your votaries, of different race

Made one, by love, by marriage, and by you.
Lifting her arms to soap her hair

Her pretty breasts respond – and there

The movement of that buoyant pair

Is like a spell to make me swear

Twenty odd years have turned to air;

Now she’s the girl I didn’t dare

Approach, ask out, much less declare

My love to, mired in young despair.

 

Childbearing, rows, domestic care –

All the prosaic wear and tear

That constitute the life we share –

Slip from her beautiful and bare

Bright body as, made half aware

Of my quick, surreptitious stare,

She wrings the water from her hair

And turning smiles to see me there.
Our mariner’s last landfall was this shore:

My namesake stood, four hundred years ago,

The empty Caspian at his back, and saw

A shelving view I intimately know –

 

Clean, silent air and noble poplar trees,

A marshy plain beyond which mountains rise,

The snow-line and the sky – all this he sees –

The colours fresh and calm before his eyes.

 

Fresh as your fading figure in my mind:

You look back to your little ship, then stare

As if the riches you had hoped to find

Were somehow present in the limpid air.

 

You walk towards the limits of my sight:

I see you stumble in the dusty light.
The sun comes up, and soon

The night’s thin fall of snow

Fades from the grass as if

It could not wait to go.

 

But look, a lank line lingers

Beyond the lawn’s one tree,

Safe in its shadow still,

Held momentarily.

 

Delighted my daughter runs

Twisting from my embrace

To touch the fragile snow

Before it leaves no trace.
I think it must have been in Limbo where,

As Dante says, the better poets share

Old friendships, rivalries, once famous fights

And, now they've left it, set the world to rights.

As I was being hustled through in transit

To God knows what damned hole, I thought I'd chance it

And chat to some of the assembled great ones

Who looked as bored as trapped theatre patrons

Who've paid good cash and find they hate the show . . .

I picked on one; "I rather doubt you know . . . "

He started up and peered at me:  "Know you,

You snivelling fool?  Know you?  Of course I do!

You ruined my best poem.  Look who's here . . ."

He turned to his companions with a sneer,

"Traducer and destroyer of our art,

The biggest stink since Beelzebub's last fart".

They jostled round, each shouting out his curses,

"You buried me with your insipid verses . . ."

"You left out my best metaphor, you moron . . ."

"You missed my meaning or they set no store on

An accurate rendition where you come from".

"He comes from where they send the deaf and dumb from,

He got my metre wrong . . ."  "He missed my rhymes",

"He missed puns I don't know how many times

Then shoved his own in . . . "  But I turned and fled

Afraid that in a moment I'd be dead

A second time, torn limb from spectral limb.

 

A mist came down and I was lost:  a dim

Shape beckoned; thinking it must be my guide

I ran for reassurance to his side.

But it was someone I'd not seen before,

An old man bent beside the crumbling shore

Of Lethe's stream.  He stared a long time, then

"Did you translate?"  I screamed,"Oh not again,"

But as I backed off one quick claw reached out;

He clutched my coat, and with a piercing shout

(He didn't look as though he had it in him)

Cried, "We've a guest!  Who'll be the first to skin him?"

Then added, "Just my joke now; stay awhile,

The crowd in these parts is quite versatile

Though we've one thing in common, all of us;

When you were curious, and courteous,

Enough to translate poems from our tongue

All of us gathered here were not among

The chosen ones".  I looked around – a crowd

Now hemmed us in and from it soon a loud

Discordant murmur rose:  "Please, why not mine?"

"You did Z's poems, my stuff's just as fine . . ."

"The greatest critics have admired my verse . . ."

"You worked on crap that's infinitely worse

Than my worst lines".  "Some of my stuff's quite good –

You will allow that? – It's not all dead wood?

Why then . . ?" and slowly the reproaches turned

To begging, bragging, angry tears that burned

Their way into my sorry soul.

 

                                              Once more

I ran and saw my guide, tall on the shore

– The other shore – of Lethe. "Rescue me!"

I called, "Get me to where I have to be

For all eternity . . ."  He smiled; "My dear,

You've reached your special hell.  It's here.  It's here".
The first night that I slept with you

And slept, I dreamt (these lines are true):

Now newly married we had moved

Into an unkempt house we loved –

The rooms were large, the floors of stone,

The garden gently overgrown

With sunflowers, phlox, and mignonette –

All as we would have wished and yet

There was a shabby something there

Tainting the mild and windless air.

Where did it lurk?  Alarmed we saw

The walls about us held the flaw –

They were of plaster, like grey chalk,

Porous and dead:  it seemed our talk,

Our glances, even love, would die

With such indifference standing by.

Then, scarcely thinking what I did,

I chipped the plaster and it slid

In easy pieces to the floor;

It crumbed cleanly, more and more

Fell unresistingly away –

And there, beneath that deadening grey,

A fresco stood revealed:  sky-blue

Predominated, for the view

Was of an ebullient country scene,

The crowning of some pageant queen

Whose dress shone blue, and over all

The summer sky filled half the wall.

And so it was in every room,

The plaster’s undistinguished gloom

Gave way to dances, festivals,

Processions, muted pastorals –

And everywhere that spacious blue:

I woke, and lying next to you

Knew all that I had dreamt was true.
When the children are asleep and our old bed

Fills with the drama of your dreams, I head

Downstairs to double check the locks and pour

Neat bourbon down, just like I did before

I ever locked a door, back when I blazed by night

Through danger in a yellow whiskey light.

I am again the wildhearted and lonely,

To whom the angel will appear, the only

Angel I have known, who drags her wings

On dance hall floors while some bright jukebox sings

Of sadness gone too sweet, and I am caught

Up in the arms of all the feeling I have fought.

Against that torn mouth no kiss comes to bless,

I answer to the shame I can’t confess,

The old wound coiled up bitterly in me,

The one your love relieves but cannot free.

Hers is the power of darkness, fierce, defiled,

To which fate led me willing as a child,

And though I kneel to love to serve each day,

I know in time there will be hell to pay.
One day I took you from your mother’s side

(you won’t recall the fertile estuary’s seethe),

Down where the minnows surfaced with the tide

And we labored in the muggy air to breathe.

You weren’t quite four, while I was old and smitten

(you won’t remember and you’ll need to know)

Sick with love.  I read NO SWIMMING written

On the sign, and yet I let you go.

Naked as a newt you paddled in my arms

While I kicked in the murky undertow,

Bouyed up by life too golden, sleek and warm

(you don’t remember, some think it better so)

To reason or resist.  Your slightest wish

Became my choice and in the southern heat

We hung in that white noon, two strange, pale fish,

Woman and child, eternal and complete.

You don’t remember, but you knew it all:

Swimming the tidal waters by yourself,

Scorning the arms that held you, deftly to crawl

Onto that wide, alluvial silt shelf.
As if my child, I lead her to the plane

Where I must let her climb the stairs alone

And take her seat behind the doubled pane.

Within the waiting plane’s wide body, bone,

Like the blown shell of an egg, and blood, too thick

To pulse sometimes, constrain the dynamo I’ve known;

And what she might become beyond this quick,

Dark flight, I can’t imagine. Even now

The stairs fold up and in and I feel heartsick.

Each visit ends like this. In time we bow

To the necessity and claim profound

Returns in memory. I see her now,

Searching for berries I’d already found

Deep in the orchard’s summer shade

And gobbled up when she was not around.

The apples that she picked for pies were flayed,

Their skins coiled on the kitchen counter tiles,

And cut to fit the perfect crusts she made.

Hygenic fury scrubbed off all our smiles

And washed our cotton shorts and shifts to shreds.

Oh golden, garden summers, happy isles!

She drove and tucked us crisply into bed.

Now empty as the house, she cannot sleep

Who once cured every ill, held every head.

Bereft of every life her iron will lived to keep,

Reluctantly, she follows us out west.

No matter how I love her she’s distressed,

Who cannot give her back the life she gave,

That life become more haunting than the grave.
At dusk in midwest summers as a child

The fireflies drew me down into the dark,

Down where the ruddy orchard had gone wild

And berry vines set thorns around their sparks.

A jelly jar with cheesecloth as a lid

Swooped through the heavy air to find its mark.

Live lightning lit the glass and swam and slid

Through all the dark a six-year-old could hold,

And when she called me from the porch I hid,

Though once I ran, obedient, to enfold

My mother silhouetted on the stair,

The one bare bulb behind her burning gold.

She showed me how in childhood she would wear

The firefly on her finger like a ring.

With one white moon of nail while I stood there,

She snapped the lucent body at the wing,

Then fixed the pulsing globe to me with blood

And I thought I would never shake the thing.

So when I heard her voice command, I’d scoot

Behind the apple branches out of sight,

And breathing in the rot of fallen fruit,

Return my mother’s jewels to the night.
The smell of spring is sweet upon the air,

And I will know it well before it goes,

(the faint, damp flower of a lover’s hair)

And know it well before the dry dawn shows.

And if I took this whiskey down as fast

As any mother’s son could hope to pour,

(she only promised that it wouldn’t last)

I’d still be standing sober by the door

To watch the heady blossom of the moon,

The wild clematis tangled in its light,

(I’ll be sleeping on the job before it’s noon)

And what is left of sweetness in the night.
Though I may scent black cherry,

Violets or truffles in the nose,

Make my companions weary

Praising the bull’s blood that I chose,

Though it courses through my heart

And makes me brave (but rarely true),

And is the consummated art

Of all that tastebuds can construe,

Though I forget, I won’t deny:

The peroration to all this,

When the radiant glass is dry,

Is one expensive piss.
The risk is moral death each time we act,

And every act is whittled by the blade

Of history, pared down to brutal fact,

The fact: we only want what we degrade.

No beauty in the glass makes our loss good,

No hero in the wings can take the stage,

The clash of blood at war with its own blood

Intoxicates us with colossal rage.

A cold beer and the young moon’s tender horns

Are shining on the table where we spar

Like women gladiators, bred and born

To wear our father’s breastplates, greaves and scars.

There’s something not quite right here. We can’t talk

Like some girls, who’d say, “Hell, the bastards broke our hearts.”

We are a different kind of tough; we hawk

Our epic violence in bleak bars, in bed, in art.
This is my mother’s childhood home, my own.

Late summer:  bushels warp in orchard grass,

The apples drop into an insect drone

Pervasive as this shade; we sense the past.

Mnemonic as the taste of late, warm fruit,

This arbor and its sentimental blur

Of earth and roses resurrect those brute,

Voracious children we forget we were.

The broad leaves stir along the vine—intrusion

Gentle as this present—where my mother

Steps beneath a vegetable confusion

Savage as our hold on one another.

Beyond this tangle of espaliers, noon

Passes in the shadow of a perfect arc;

Here bees have sucked the ripe grapes dry, and soon

The skins will settle, sweeter for the dark.
The river is a mirror three miles wide,

Where our white wake cuts out a crescent moon

That rides upon the gently rising tide.

We anchor and we fish, while some old tune

Of love gone wrong floats on the air.

Shrimp, pink as my own thumbs, as big around,

On weighted lines rigged with a double snare,

Sink in the summer waters of the sound.

Such sweetmeats, Father, set to lure

The slimy spot and croaker to our hands!

In brotherhood unspoken and obscure,

I hold the hissing lantern while your knife

Splits belly after belly in its turn

And wonder, what cold, ancient monstrous life

Would not be drawn to coiling round the stern?

We wash our hands and pack up for the night,

Slinging the guts in water warm as blood.

The engine turns, the beacon blinks its light

And I keep watch behind as if I could

Defend us from Leviathan’s attack.

Sunk in the brine, the silver blades now beat

A brilliant phosphorous spoor out of the black,

A million worlds exploding at my feet,

Wild beauty in the violence that we share,

And then this darkness, darkness everywhere.
You are not mine; you are my sister’s child.

Your soft mouth blossoms as you breathe and move

Your lips, just souring with milk, to smile

In sweet maternal dream.  I have known love,

 

But not like this.  How can my sister dare

To risk such beauty in a world so dark?

Billowing curtains in the night storm air

Admit some feral bitch’s lonely bark.

 

What will time leave you, Beauty, Oh my boy?

What love will cut your heart out in the night?

Already blind fear and desire’s toy,

What will you learn to salvage of delight?

 

What knowledge, blessing, charm might I dispense?

Here’s snake-root, wolf’s-bane, holy water, Word

To hold against your crumbling innocence

And cruel attrition, of which you are assured.

 

Wild lightning scores the sky through this slant rain.

The plummeting barometer’s a sign

Of these sharp times that needle at my brain,

And I would leave you something that was mine.

 

I have these hard won pages and no son,

For reasons I don’t know.  Remember me,

And do not leave what I have left undone.

 
 What a good fit!  But the label says Honduras:

Alas, I am Union forever, yes, both breasts

and the heart between them committed to U.S. labor.

 

But such a splendid fit!  And the label tells me

the woman who made it, bronze as the breasts now in it,

speaks the language I dream in; I count in Spanish

 

the pesos she made stitching this breast-divider:

will they go for her son's tuition, her daughter's wedding?

The thought is a lovely fit, but oh, the label!

 

And oh, those pesos that may be pennies, and hard-earned.

Was it son or daughter who made this, unschooled, unwedded?

How old?  Fourteen?  Ten?  That fear is a tight fit.

 

If only the heart could be worn like the breast, divided,

nosing in two directions for news of the wide world,

sniffing here and there for justice, for mercy.

 

How burdened every choice is with politics, guilt,

expensive with duty, heavy as breasts in need of

this perfect fit whose label says Honduras.
On grandson's lips, "tidy" is pretty dire:

it smacks of age and tameness, of desire

banked by gray prudence, waiting for commands,

forced to endure the scrubbing of both hands.

 

But tidy sets the table, mends the toys,

lays out clean bedding and such minor joys

as underpin contentment and at least

nourish with daily bread, if not with feast.

 

Tidy's been blamed for everything we suffer

from guilt to prisons.  But free-wheeling's rougher,

less wary not to fracture laws and bones,

much less adept with statutes than with stones.

 

True, tidy seldom goes where genius goes,

but then how many do?  And heaven knows

there's work for us who watch the time, the purse,

the washing of small hands.  I've been called worse.

 Cows, at their lumbering and stately pace,

rise from this roadside landscape, water, field

and early morning sky, not so much place

as attitude. Mist and crude rails have sealed

them in their all-but-changeless pose,

like founding fathers whom their myths embalm,

on meadows, captured, rapt, as in Corot's

mute umbered greens and shallow pools of calm.

The moment cannot last; already there's

the next billboard quickening appetites,

hawking aloud some need, somebody's wares,

some town approaching us with its delights

and deals and meretricious urge to tease

us back into our natural unease.
Sing me once more your morning litany,

bird shuttling without rest from brittle twig

to naked branch of each unsheltering tree;

promise me shoots, earth still too cold to dig;

pronounce yourself again, green blessing, kiss

of the sun; persuade me, bees, do not be mute,

read me the names of months kinder than this,

remind me of the taste of summer fruit.

The heart is stubborn in its unbelief,

remembering how beginnings harden down

to this recurrent metaphor for grief.

Geese pouring north above my wintry town,

you've heard some news, you know why you return:

teach me, again, again, until I learn.
I'm learning the subjunctive, mood of choice

once the indicative has slipped away

that seemed to say it all once.  Active voice,

yes, all the tenses—I need those to say

act and remembrance, why and how we live—

but now, subjunctive and conditional

("If that should happen") and obligative

("Let this be said") feel truer than "I shall,

he did, we are," a ripening to speech

spiced and complex and tart, past what I'm sure

of—or was sure of—or set out to reach;

how to acquire a taste for the impure

provisional, that's what I need to know,

before the last imperative says "Go."
Failure is always partial:  every tense—

future or past or present—is an arc

only, not the full circle, which must work

elsewhere its recompense.

 

Glutted with weeping of dismantled snow,

streams run disheveled, yielding grace to force;

but bide the season, and each chastened course

remembers how to flow.

 

Not that all things, concentric for our sakes,

feed us with order, but that order comes

against, around and over us, and hums

while mending what it breaks.

 

I like believing this unlikely tale,

or should I say believe it out of need,

or need belief, wherever it may lead

or how I partly fail.

 
 You, What's-your-name, who down the byways of my blood

are hurtling toward the future, tell me if you've packed

the thousand flavors of the wind, the river's voice,

the tongues of moss and fern singing the earth.

 

And where have you left the rain? Careful: don't lose it,

nor the moan of the seagull in her blue desert,

nor those stars warm as caresses

you will not find again in your nights of steel.

 

Watch that you don't run short of butterflies;

learn the colors of the hours;

and here, in this little case of bones

I've left you the perfume of the sea.

 The words are what I know,

but they are no comfort.

The comfort is in the music

that says what I cannot know.

 

The words are what I use

to make a map of the one place

there is, but it's the music

takes me where I want to go.

 

The words are addresses,

but the things that live in them

have always just moved, and can be reached,

if at all, through the music.

 

The words are a name

for the shadow I dress in.

The radiance that wears me

answers only to the music.
Salve Regina

 

If there were angels, they would sound this way,

climbing by half-tones, smoke of sacrifice

soaring by imperceptible degrees, like day

lifting itself clear into paradise.

Angels would rise from such a nearly-still

pool of unlabored music, through blue air;

not even wings to beat, or weight of will

anchoring them to earth, or death to bear.

 

But these are men and women singing, feet

blood-heavy on this unforgiving ground

untouched by angels.  If any song is sweet

they sweeten it, inventing the unfound

serenity of heaven, to rejoice,

shaming God to compassion with one voice.I am the one that doesn't get away.

Their blood tumbles with promise, teeming

quicksilver too luminous to stay;

I am their whole catch, landed and streaming

 

rainbows. Those others they dream of—the charmer,

the saint, my father's magnificent son—

circle the wormed hook, but sensing harm,

slide on forever. I am the one

 

trailing their bait through the film of the ideal,

rising to this flawed light. No more, no less

than actual, like a death, I am the real

one, the waking, the caress.There is a man goes stumbling through this town,

his left side trembling as if touched by stroke

or palsy, maybe, and he wears a face

that says, "I want this," looking steady, down

where feet must totter straight. We never spoke,

I do not know him, but in all this place

nobody says so surely or so clear,

Desire is all there is to keep us here.

 

How easy—irresistible, for me—

in the ungainly shoes he drags with such

tenacity, to falter, to let be,

let go. Just once, I think, release your touch

on that hard substance, life, and you go free.

How wonderful to want it all that much.The spring my neighbors lost their son,

their garden greened and swelled with bloom

that burdened every slender limb

and crowded the last crack of room

 

from hedge to hedge, until the eye

was almost surfeited with much

too much, smell wearied, skin recoiled

from silk and velvet leaves to touch,

 

and mind ached with the gardener's back

bent to the clacking of old shears

over big, heavy-breasted blossoms

gathering earthward like slow tears.

 Family faces modulate

like variations on a theme,

so that in chordal passages

the decades shift without a seam,

 

the living echoing the dead

to dress themselves in borrowed grace.

I like to find my father's look

safe in my son's unwounded face.

 

Such grave harmonics lend us back

the only paradise we know;

an idle game with time, but still,

not bad, as resurrections go."Where have you been," says my old friend the poet,

"and what have you been doing?" The question

weighs and measures me like an unpaid bill,

hangs in the air, waiting for some remittance.

 

Well, I've been coring apples, layering them

in raisins and brown sugar; I've been finding

what's always lost, mending and brushing,

pruning houseplants, remembering birthdays.

 

The wisdom of others thunders past me

like sonic booming; what I know of the world

fits easily in the palm of one hand

and lies quietly there, like a child's cheek.

 

Spoon-fed to me each evening, history

puts on my children's faces, because they

are the one alphabet all of me reads.

I've been setting the table for the dead,

 

rehearsing the absence of the living,

seasoning age with names for the unborn.

I've been putting a life together, like

supper, like a poem, with what I have.Dusty and brown on some forgotten shelf

a century hence—or two, let dreams be grand!—

this wry and slanted gloss upon myself

has slipped into some stranger's browsing hand.

A woman, maybe, growing old like me,

or a young man ambitious for his name,

curious about my antique prosody

but pleased to find our motives much the same.

He cannot know—nor she—what this one life

from the late twentieth craved, or cost, or found;

he will forget my name; but mother, wife,

daughter, has struck a chord, sings from the ground

a moment to his ear, as now to yours,

for what is ours in common and endures.There is a rumor

      the eagle tires of being eagle

      and would change wing

      with a less kingly bird as king,

      say, the seagull.

 

      With swans and cranes and geese,

      so the rumor goes,

      finding his official pose

      faintly absurd,

      he would aspire to unofficial peace

      and be, if possible, pure bird.

 

There is a rumor

      the eagle nurses now a mood

      to abdicate

      forever and for good

      as flagpole-sitter for the State.

 

      Is it the fall of age

      merely, a geriatrical complaint,

      this drift to disengage,

      this cool unrage?

      or rather some dark philosophical taint?

 

There is a rumor

      (God save us) the old warrior

      who screamed against the sun

      and toured with Caesar and Napoleon

      cavils now at war

 

      and would allegedly retire,

      resign, retreat

      to a blue solitude,

      an inaccessible country seat

      to fan a native fire

      a purely personal feud.

 The beautiful is fair.  The just is fair.

Yet one is commonplace and one is rare,

One everywhere, one scarcely anywhere.

 

So fair unfair a world.  Had we the wit

To use the surplus for the deficit,

We'd make a fairer fairer world of it.Leave the bars lying in the grass.

Let all wanderers freely pass

Into the pasture now.

 

Gone are the fawn-shy heifers, gone

The little calf almost a fawn,

And the black two-year cow.

 

Leave the bars lying where they are.

Let each black-triangled birch bar

Be white and triple-warning:

 

One for all the tender things that go,

One for the near and ultimate snow,

One for frost by morning.

 

In that first snow a frightened deer,

Swifter than snowfall, swift as fear,

May pass here flying, flying.

 

What if no fence could foil his speed?

Spare him the leap, spare him one need

Of leaping.  Leave the bars lying.A seated statue of himself he seems.

A bronze slowness becomes him.  Patently

The page he contemplates he doesn't see.

 

The lesson, the long lesson, has been summer.

His mind holds summer as his skin holds sun.

For once the homework, all of it, was done.

 

What were the crops, where were the fiery fields

Where for so many days so many hours

The sun assaulted him with glittering showers?

 

Expect a certain absence in his presence.

Expect all winter long a summer scholar,

For scarcely all its snows can cool that color.
The Fate of Elms

 

If they are doomed and all that can be done

Should fail, if they must die and disappear

And we must see them dying one by one,

Summer and fall and winter, year by year

Until there comes a summer so bereft

That over river, meadow, pasture height

No last and solitary elm is left

Lifting its leafy wings as if for flight—

 

Let us not make our grief for them too great

And say we wished that we had gone before,

Making the fate of elms too much our fate,

Seeing the always less and not the more.

Though elms may die, not everything must die:

Not their green memory against our sky.
The Gardener

 

I watch an old man working in his garden

Dealing life to plant and death to weed.

Of one he saves, of one destroys the seed.

He knows the weeds and not one will he pardon.

He bids the pea vines bloom and they obey.

He teaches them to climb.  He tests a pod.

Much that another man might throw away

He saves, he forks it under for decay

To be another generation's need.

This is his work to do.  This is his day.

He makes all birth and growth and death his deed.

Slowly he moves, but slow is not delay.

He has all time to work.  I watch him plod.

Old man, old man, who told you you were God?And now good night.  Good night to this old house

Whose breathing fires are banked for their night's rest.

Good night to lighted windows in the west.

Good night to neighbors and to neighbor's cows

 

Whose morning milk will be beside my door.

Good night to one star shining in.  Good night

To earth, poor earth with its uncertain light,

Our little wandering planet still at war.

 

Good night to one unstarved and gnawing mouse

Between the inner and the outer wall.

He has a paper nest in which to crawl.

Good night to men who have no bed, no house.Twelve white cattle on the crest,

Milk-white against the chicory skies,

Six gazing south, six gazing west

With the blue distance in their eyes.

Twelve white cattle standing still.

Why should they move?  There are no flies

To tease them on this wind-washed hill.

Twelve white cattle utterly at rest.

Why should they graze?  They are past grazing.

They have cropped the grass, they have had their fill.

Now they stand gazing, they stand gazing.

Only the tall redtop about their knees

And the white clouds above the hill

Move in the softly moving breeze.

The cattle move not, they are still.The mouse whose name is Time

Is out of sound and sight.

He nibbles at the day

And nibbles at the night.

 

He nibbles at the summer

Till all of it is gone.

He nibbles at the seashore,

He nibbles at the moon.

 

Yet no man not a seer,

No woman not a sibyl

Can ever ever hear

Or see him nibble, nibble.

 

And whence or how he comes

And how or where he goes

Nobody now remembers,

Nobody living knows.My mind matches this understated land.

Outdoors the pencilled tree, the wind-carved drift,

Indoors the constant fire, the careful thrift

Are facts that I accept and understand.

 

I have brought in red berries and green boughs—

Berries of black alder, boughs of pine.

They and the sunlight on them, both are mine.

I need no florist flowers in my house.

 

Having lived here the years that are my best,

I call it home.  I am content to stay.

I have no bird's desire to fly away.

I envy neither north, east, south, nor west.

 

My outer world and inner make a pair.

But would the two be always of a kind?

Another latitude, another mind?

Or would I be New England anywhere?From where I stand the sheep stand still

As stones against the stony hill.

 

The stones are gray

And so are they.

 

And both are weatherworn and round,

Leading the eye back to the ground.

 

Two mingled flocks—

The sheep, the rocks.

 

And still no sheep stirs from its place

Or lifts its Babylonian face.Two bums walk out of Eden.  Evening approaches

The suave, the decorous trees, the careful grass,

The strict green benches—and the two bums go.

 

They caught the official nod, the backward-pointing

Thumb, and now they rise and leave a little

Briskly as men heedful to waste no time—

 

As men bending their steps toward due appointments.

The tall one looms like a skeleton; the runt

Walks with the totter of a tumbleweed.

 

Down the trimmed ceremonial path they go

Together, silent and separate and eyes

Ahead like soldiers.  Down the long path and out.

 

What desert blanched these faces?  What blowing sands

Gullied the eyes and scarred the hanging hands

While Babylon and Nineveh were falling?

 

Now a shade darker will be a shade less dark.

Now there is room for evening in the park

Where cool episcopal bells will soon be calling.The two Lords, Jeffery and Jehovah, side by side

Proclaim that hospitality lives and Jesus died.

 

Jeffery in whitewashed brick, Jehovah in gray stone

Both testify man does not live by bread alone.

 

From sacred love to bed and board and love profane

One could dart back and forth and not get wet in rain.

 

How providentially inclusive the design:

Here are the cocktails, here the sacramental wine.

 

Here is the holy, here the not-so-holy host.

Here are the potted palms and here the Holy Ghost.

 

Tell, if you can and will, which is more richly blest:

The guest Jehovah entertains or Jeffery's guest.I can imagine someone who found

these fields unbearable, who climbed

the hillside in the heat, cursing the dust,

cracking the brittle weeds underfoot,

wishing a few more trees for shade.

 

An Easterner especially, who would scorn

the meagerness of summer, the dry

twisted shapes of black elm,

scrub oak, and chaparral, a landscape

August has already drained of green.

 

One who would hurry over the clinging

thistle, foxtail, golden poppy,

knowing everything was just a weed,

unable to conceive that these trees

and sparse brown bushes were alive.

 

And hate the bright stillness of the noon

without wind, without motion.

the only other living thing

a hawk, hungry for prey, suspended

in the blinding, sunlit blue.

 

And yet how gentle it seems to someone

raised in a landscape short of rain—

the skyline of a hill broken by no more

trees than one can count, the grass,

the empty sky, the wish for water.This is the hall of broken limbs

Where splintered marble athletes lie

Beside the arms of cherubim.

Nothing is ever thrown away.

 

These butterflies are set in rows.

So small and gray inside their case

They look alike now.  I suppose

Death makes most creatures commonplace.

 

These portraits here of the unknown

Are hung three high, frame piled on frame.

Each potent soul who craved renown,

Immortalized without a name.

 

Here are the shelves of unread books,

Millions of pages turning brown.

Visitors wander through the stacks,

But no one ever takes one down.

 

I wish I were a better guide.

There's so much more that you should see.

Rows of bottles with nothing inside.

Displays of locks which have no key.

 

You'd like to go?  I wish you could.

This room has such a peaceful view.

Look at that case of antique wood

Without a label.  It's for you.Now you hear what the house has to say.

Pipes clanking, water running in the dark,

the mortgaged walls shifting in discomfort,

and voices mounting in an endless drone

of small complaints like the sounds of a family

that year by year you've learned how to ignore.

 

But now you must listen to the things you own,

all that you've worked for these past years,

the murmur of property, of things in disrepair,

the moving parts about to come undone,

and twisting in the sheets remember all

the faces you could not bring yourself to love.

 

How many voices have escaped you until now,

the venting furnace, the floorboards underfoot,

the steady accusations of the clock

numbering the minutes no one will mark.

The terrible clarity this moment brings,

the useless insight, the unbroken dark.

 Looking for something in the Sunday paper,

I flipped by accident through Local Weddings,

Yet missed the photograph until I saw

your name among the headings.

 

And there you were, looking almost unchanged,

Your hair still long, though now long out of style,

And you still wore that stiff and serious look

You called a smile.

 

I felt as though we sat there face to face.

My stomach tightened.  I read the item through.

It said too much about both families,

Too little about you.

 

Finished at last, I threw the paper down,

Stung by jealousy, my mind aflame,

Hating this man, this stranger whom you loved,

This printed name.

 

And yet I clipped it out to put away

Inside a book like something I might use,

A scrap I knew I wouldn't read again

But couldn't bear to lose.The ceremonies of the day have ceased,

Abandoned to the ragged crow's parade.

The flags unravel in the caterpillar's feast.

The wreaths collapse onto the stones they shade.

 

How quietly doves gather by the gate

Like souls who have no heaven and no hell.

The patient grass reclaims its lost estate

Where one stone angel stands as sentinel.

 

The voices whispering in the burning leaves,

Faint and inhuman, what can they desire

When every season feeds upon the past,

And summer's green ignites the autumn's fire?

 

The afternoon's a single thread of light

Sewn through the tatters of a leafless willow,

As one by one the branches fade from sight,

And time curls up like paper turning yellow
The night before they meant to pluck his eyes

He caught his tale at six on Action News—

Some blow-dried moron blabbing the bald lies

The public swallowed as "Official Views."

 

After a word for douche, Delilah made

A live appearance and was interviewed.

Complaining what a pittance she was paid,

She plugged the film she starred in in the nude.

 

Unbearable, he thought, and flipped the switch,

Lay sleepless on the bed in the bright room

Where every thought brought back the pretty bitch

And all the Orient of her perfume,

 

Her perfect breasts, her hips and slender waist,

Matchless among the centerfolds of Zion,

Which summoned to his tongue the mingled taste

Of honey oozing from the rotted lion;

 

For now his every mumble in the sack

(Bugged, of course, and not a whisper missed)

Would be revealed in lurid paperback

"As told to" Sheba Sleaze, the columnist.

 

Beefcake aside, he was a man of thought

Who heretofore had kept to the strict law:

For all the cheap celebrity it brought

He honestly deplored that ass's jaw,

 

The glossy covers of their magazines

With taut chains popping on his greasy chest,

The ads for razors with the corny scenes

And captions: Hebrew Hunk Says We Shave Best!

 

Such were his thoughts; much more severe the dreams

That sped him through his sleep in a wild car:

Vistas of billboards where he lathered cream,

Gulped milk, chugged beer, or smoked a foul cigar,

 

And this last image, this, mile after mile—

Delilah, naked, sucking on a pair

Of golden shears, winking her lewdest smile

Amid a monumental pile of hair

 

And blaring type: The Babe Who Buzzed the Yid!

Starring in JUST A LITTLE OFF MY HEAD.

He noted how his locks demurely hid

Those monstrous tits. And how her lips were red,

 

Red as his eyes when he was roused at seven

To trace back to its source the splendid ray

Of sunlight streaming from the throat of Heaven

Commanding him to kneel and thus to pray:

 

"Lord God of Hosts, whose name cannot be used

Promotion-wise, whose face shall not adorn

A cornflake box, whose trust I have abused:

Return that strength of which I have been shorn

 

That we might smite this tasteless shiksa land

With hemorrhoids and rats, with fire and sword.

Forgive my crime.  Put forth thy fearsome hand

Against them and their gods, I pray thee, Lord."

 

So, shorn and strengthless, led through Gaza Mall

Past shoeshop, past boutique, Hallmark, and Sears,

He held his head erect and smiled to all

And did not dignify the scene with tears,

 

Knowing that God could mercifully ordain,

For punishment, the blessing in disguise.

"Good riddance," he said, whispering to the pain

As searing, the twin picks hissed in his eyes.

 All human things are subject to decay.

Beauty is momentary in the mind.

The curfew tolls the knell of parting day.

If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?

Forlorn! the very word is like a bell

And somewhat of a sad perplexity.

Here, take my picture, though I bid farewell,

In a dark time the eye begins to see

The woods decay, the woods decay and fall—

Bare ruined choirs where late the sweet birds sang.

What but design of darkness to appall?

An aged man is but a paltry thing.

If I should die, think only this of me:

Crass casualty obstructs the sun and rain

When I have fears that I may cease to be,

To cease upon the midnight with no pain

And hear the spectral singing of the moon

And strictly meditate the thankless muse.

The world is too much with us, late and soon.

It gathers to a greatness, like the ooze.

Do not go gentle into that good night.

Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil.

Again he raised the jug up to the light:

Old age hath yet his honor and his toil.

Downward to darkness on extended wings,

Break, break, break, on thy cold gray stones, O sea,

And tell sad stories of the death of kings.

I do not think that they will sing to me.Let's hear it for Dwayne Coburn, who was small

And mean without a single saving grace

Except for stealing—home from second base

Or out of teammates' lockers, it was all

The same to Dwayne.  The Pep Club candy sale,

However, proved his downfall.  He was held

Briefly on various charges, then expelled

And given a choice:  enlist or go to jail.

He finished basic and came home from Bragg

For Christmas on his reassignment leave

With one prize in his pack he thought unique,

Which went off prematurely New Year's Eve.

The student body got the folded flag

And flew it in his memory for a week.

 

II

 

Good pulling guards were scarce in high school ball.

The ones who had the weight were usually slow

As lumber trucks.  A scaled-down wild man, though,

Like Dennis "Wampus" Peterson, could haul

His ass around right end for me to slip

Behind his blocks. Played college ball a year—

Red-shirted when they yanked his scholarship

Because he majored, so he claimed, in Beer.

I saw him one last time.  He'd added weight

Around the neck, used words like "grunt" and "slope,"

And said he'd swap his Harley and his dope

And both balls for a 4-F knee like mine.

This happened in the spring of '68.

He hanged himself in 1969.

 

III

 

Jay Swinney did a great Roy Orbison

Impersonation once at Lyn-Rock Park,

Lip-synching to "It's Over" in his dark

Glasses beside the jukebox.  He was one

Who'd want no better for an epitaph

Than he was good with girls and charmed them by

Opening his billfold to a photograph:

Big brother.  The Marine.  Who didn't die.

He comes to mind, years from that summer night,

In class for no good reason while I talk

About Thoreau's remark that one injustice

Makes prisoners of us all. The piece of chalk

Splinters and flakes in fragments as I write,

To settle in the tray, where all the dust is.
Rising, Madame, towards heaven in a bed

That elevates my knees and lifts my head

To sustenance, that is, a plastic tray

Of Jell-O, applesauce, and consommé,

I have become a connoisseur of juice,

Which leaves me liquid, not to mention loose,

And keeps my precious fluids running clear

Until such time as I shall disappear—

Like what descends transparently for pain,

Dripping, ex machina, to tubes that drain.

What has, you may well ask, contributed

To this apostrophe to one long dead

From one so nearly so?  You come to me,

As Sting might say, in synchronicity;

Searching just now for bulletins about

This storm called Cara which, I have no doubt,

Shall live up to its namesake, namely you,

And do us in before the day is through,

I channel-surfed and lit on PBS.

My dear, shall I be coy and make you guess

What stopped me there and brought a hurricane

And you into one focus in my brain?

One line, in Mr. Wilbur's fine translation:

And cultivate a sober moderation ....

Think of it!  If we ever needed proof

Of greater patterns, wasn't it Tartuffe

That brought us once and brings us now together—

Molière and two lost souls and raging weather?

Lord, twenty years have passed and still each line

Smacks tartly on the tongue like a good wine

Heady with epigram and foiled seduction.

 

It was The Coastal Players' great production—

Rhymed verse they said our audience could not

Make much of, let alone digest the plot—

Yet how we triumphed, I the raisonneur

Cléante and you the faithful spouse, the pure

Elmire, the model of a perfect wife.

So much for art. Who says it mirrors life?

Like leaves whirling outside, the years have flown

And taken with them Pernelle and Orgon.

Dorine the maid (Remember?  What a bitch!)

Went into real estate and came out rich,

Sweet Marianne had children and grew fat,

And you'd have thought it less than fitting that

The charge against Tartuffe, so like the play's,

Was finally dropped:  not only virtue pays.

In spite of the applause I found so sweet

I never found the courage to repeat

Those evenings' glories in another play.

And you?  We gathered you were on your way

To greater things.  A touring company

(A Chorus Line!) had called, you gushed to me

At the cast party, and our toasts went on

(Fuck "sober moderation"!) until dawn,

When I appeared, bedraggled, in your gown—

My coming out, no small thing in this town—

Battering Blanche against your not-so-manly

Peruked and powdered parody of Stanley

While Matt, your surly boyfriend, hulked and glared.

You laughed at him. I must say I was scared.

 

After that night our paths diverged.  I learned

Your offers never came, heard that you'd turned

To wilder exploits, but, then, I was so

Into my own pursuits I didn't know

How dark your path became.  Often our cars

Would pass en route to our respective bars.

We'd honk and wave like drunken teens.  Dare I

Hope that one kiss I blew you said good-bye?

Your end came the next summer.  Tom, the cop

Who'd played Laurent, came by the flower shop

To tell me what he knew—in rapid order,

Marriage, your panicked calls—quick as the border

Of this new storm front alters.  Drugs, of course,

Were much of it, and there was the divorce

Which had turned ugly.  Still, the Lord knows what

Led to that final beating and the shot

That tore your face away—before Matt made

The 911 call, sobbing while he played

His own death scene.  I only pray it's true

What Tom believed himself:  he said that you

Were dead already when the shot was fired.

 

My own death is the kind that is "acquired,"

Which makes it sound like something one might paste

Into a book, as one "acquires" a taste

For sherry, leather scenes, or the ballet.

All prance around the piper.  All must pay.

No more of that.  The plot by now is stale.

Let Tony Kushner live to tell the tale

And garner all the money and awards.

May my audition be one aiming towards

A long run somewhere in a stellar cast

In which no bow I take will be my last.

Corny?  You know me, Cara, for I am

The same as you, eternally a ham

Who holds out hopes of One who can explain,

A raisonneur of happiness and pain,

Who proves for us that love is possible

And need not climax in so great a fall

As what we've suffered ... and that The Machine

Will lower with a Prince who makes us clean

And whole again, who lends His blessed grace

To salve my wreckage and restore your face—

Who lets the memory of a dead friend's laugh,

In the dark valley, be my rod and staff.

In a world full of such unwelcome guests

As storms, Tartuffe, and sickness, small requests.

 

It makes a curious dénouement that I,

Too ill for anything except to die,

May be evacuated, which shall save

These sodden relics for a drier grave.

The winds are rising, Cara, your own winds

With the great closing curtain that descends

Upon us as we play our games again

With tracking charts and crayons.  CNN

Leads the hour with your great whirling eye.

Live oaks and sweetgums just outside my high

Window gesticulate the agon for us

As fiercely as a Sophoclean chorus.

The living board their windows, and their eyes

Lift past their fragile rooflines to the skies.

What wind is this? they ask themselves.

                                                               I say

It is the wind that bears the world away.
Credit cards out, pencil and notepad handy,

The insomniac sinks deeply in his chair,

Begging swift needles in his glass of brandy

To knit once more the raveled sleeve of care,

As with control, remotely, in one hand he

Summons bright visions from the midnight air:

 

The six-way drill!  The eight-way folding ladder!

Knives that pierce coins or thin-slice loaves of bread!

Devices that will make one's tummy flatter,

Rout car thieves, or purge household taps of lead!

All made of stuff no earthly force can shatter!

Their lauds ascend Olympus in his head.

 

And yet how little will his days be brightened

By Opera Favorites or, if he feels lewd,

Even THE SWIMSUIT ISSUE.  Briefly heightened,

His hopes, ephemeral as stir-fried food,

Vanish like screws his six-way drill has tightened,

Leaving him just like them—completely screwed.

 

"Buy houses and apartments with no money!

Discover how today!  Write this address!"

Snapping alert and clicking with his gun, he

Draws a bead on the forehead of Success,

Whose orchid leis are fresh, whose teeth are sunny,

Whose tapes are on the way via UPS.

 

But anger, with succeeding snifters, passes

And soon all softens in an amber hue;

As through a pair of UV/blue-block glasses,

Doubt fades before the testimony—true

Accounts of hair sprouting like jungle grasses!

Of lifeless penises lifting anew!

 

Of bags and wrinkles blotted out!  Of dumber

Than average kids who, spared the wrath and rod,

Have learned to multiply!  He fights off slumber

The moment that his head begins to nod

And resolutely punches the first number

Of what may be the area code of God.
Slow for the sake of flowers as they turn

Toward sunlight, graceful as a line of sail

Coming into the wind. Slow for the mill-

Wheel's heft and plummet, for the chug and churn

Of water as it gathers, for the frail

Half-life of spraylets as they toss and spill.

 

For all that lags and eases, all that shows

The winding-downward and diminished scale

Of days declining to a twilit chill,

Breathe quietly, release into repose:

Be still.
The plastic menus with faint ketchup smears,

The water rings on wrinkled paper mats,

Wouldn't have bugged us then. But it's been years.

We wipe and talk.  Summed up, our lives are ruts

Disguised by cheer.  His lipsticked coffee mug

Must be replaced.  I struggle through a joke

He doesn't get, half-listen to him brag

About his car.  He offers me a smoke.

I say I quit.  Our burgers come.  We eat

Like restless kids who long to get away

From boring grown-up talk.  We have to wait

Five minutes for the check, and then we're free

To disappear from one another's view,

Wondering what we wanted to renew.

He seemed a stranger Mom let stay with us,

The man with stacks of papers in his car

Who rarely spoke, but wasn't dangerous.

One day he left his study door ajar

And I drop-kicked my half-inflated ball

Into the crack of light he'd left exposed.

The door flew back, crashing against the wall

As if protesting years of staying closed.

 

He hurried out, his eyes wide as my own.

I stood before him, waiting for his rage.

I couldn't tell him why, playing alone,

I'd broken in and drawn him from his cage.

Rather than roar, he smirked and mouthed my name.

I shrank away knowing I'd lost the game.
Why wish to be discovered anyway?

Longing for praise from academic dolts,

I'm like a character in Beckett's play

Waiting to be redeemed.  The task revolts

Me; could I just give up and grow content

With praising friends whose poems laugh at me

From pages of the journals I have sent

To twenty times?  But each SASE

Among the ads and bills may hold a crumb

To slaver over, such as "Try again."

Oh yes, I beam, tomorrow He will come!

Then editors will say they knew me when

My work was interesting, but not yet great.

Perhaps I'll hang myself.  Or else, just wait.

His words clutched like a drowning man's embrace

Those nights he spilled his secrets on my porch.

I helped him sort them, find each fear a place

Within the sanctuary of his church,

Others' opinions. Crying at times, he swore

I was the only person he could trust.

I reassured him that his private war

Was safe between us, and that problems must

Deliver change. On that score I was right:

By winter he'd stopped calling, and I heard

Through mutual friends that he took great delight

In quoting me for laughs. And yet I guard

His secrets, rocking on my porch alone,

Each hour imagining I hear the phone.

She cleans the tidy house when he's not there,

Restless as memories best left alone,

And tells herself he's learning how to care.

 

Dusting, she dreams he will caress her hair,

His rough hands soft notes on a saxophone.

He is so sensitive when he's not there.

 

Once home, he sprawls out in his leather chair

And yells at her to get the telephone.

She does, thinking he's learning how to care,

 

He's just a man, and life is never fair.

Such phrases, muttered in Mom's monotone,

Pace through her mind like monks when he is there.

 

That night, beneath him, trembling like a hare,

She feels him penetrate her, hears him groan,

And tells herself he's learning how to care.

 

Her life with him is an unquestioned prayer

Chanted against an ominous unknown.

She cleans the tidy house when he's not there

And tells herself he's learning how to care.
The deadest smile that ever scaled a face

Was brighter than these pale white, empty walls.

Worn tracks of furniture I can't replace

Haunt me like stale regrets.  Some nights she calls

Entangled in old dreams that still defy

Our sensible despair.  The phones that twist

Our voices close present the fleeting lie

That we still share some space.  But soon, the list

Of practical absurdities—the mail,

Lawyers' fees, locks on doors—draws out the heat

Behind cool phrases.  And then our voices fail

As silence settles on us like defeat.

Our talking now is just a hollow show;

We murdered conversation weeks ago.
The doctors know I dream when I'm awake.

I've smoked until my fingertips are brown.

Watching the door, I sit alone and shake.

 

My sister and her kids, Kelly and Jake,

Played games with me when I'd sink this far down

Until they knew I dream when I'm awake.

 

When Beth comes now, her smile is bright and fake.

She doesn't want to bring the kids downtown.

She leaves too soon. I sit alone and shake.

 

The voice is back. It whispers till I ache.

I'm soaked in sweat and tangled in my gown

When they catch me dreaming while still awake.

 

They've brought more pills that they must watch me take.

They're lifeguards staring at me as I drown.

They leave again. I sit alone and shake.

 

I'm stuck in a glass bubble I can't break.

The others stand outside and watch the clown.

I wish I didn't dream when I'm awake.

The room grows dark. I sit alone and shake.

Smoothing Creases

 

I dig for photographs of you once more,

Wishing that you'd simply let me sleep.

Unhealthy? Yes, but if you didn't keep

Disturbing me, I wouldn't have this chore.

I keep them hidden in a dresser drawer,

Once mounted portraits now a wadded heap

Beneath old birthday cards, and other cheap

Reminders of the lives I keep in store.

 

I know it's strange to keep you buried here

In flimsy images I should have tossed

Along with ashtrays and your makeup case.

But digging deep, and seeing you appear

With crumpled features shows I haven't lost

My touch for smoothing creases in your face.

She doesn't realize that she is dead.

Remembering the ring, the vows we swore,

I follow her like something left unsaid.

 

She drives the car I gave her when we wed.

She grips a steering wheel I've gripped before.

She doesn't realize that she is dead.

 

She's stepping from the car—her legs, her head!

Watching her stroll into the grocery store,

I follow her like something left unsaid.

 

She flicks her hair, just as she would in bed

When she'd make love as if it were a chore.

She doesn't realize that she is dead.

 

These strangers can't discern the life she's led.

They see a charming smile; I see a whore

And follow her like something left unsaid.

 

She surely feels her whole life lies ahead

As she steps briskly through the exit door.

She doesn't realize that she is dead.

I follow her like something left unsaid.
My father (didn’t everybody’s?) drank—

the Dread Disease, plague of his generation—

and we were patient, swallowed down his spite,

and understood him as he thrashed and sank,

and all forgave (oh, life means brief duration!)

and all refrained from saying wrong or right.

We knew, in dry, bright Oklahoma City,

the only cure for drink was love and pity.

We knew the flesh was frail, with delicate breath,

and so indulged each other into death.

 

But when he dared me—cursing me, demanding—

and shuffling scrawnily down halls of my mind,

sagging his jaw, speaking with tongue gone blind,

should I have answered him with understanding?

He cannot help the things he does, we said.

(He grinned and snitched a ten and drove off, weaving.)

His heart, we said, is spotless—but his head

disturbed. (Late I would hear him, racketing, heaving.)

 

Years after he was gone I think I saw

how we insulted him, drove him along:

His spirit we called nerves, said nerves were raw,

denied his holy sanction to be wrong.

The sonofabitch (God bless him) drank and died

because we understood away his pride.
Whitman, thou shouldst be living at this hour,

riding the Brooklyn subway or its cabs,

not tending wounds, but picking at the scabs

that crust our lives and turn our lifeblood sour.

The lusty laborers you knew now cower

in factories, kitchens, offices, or labs.

Their furtive hearts behind the concrete slabs

might yet find courage in your loving power.

O Walt, who reached into all secret places

unjudgingly and celebrated all,

now in this air-conditioned shopping mall

where buyers mingle masked, their features glossed,

discern our tender flesh and frightened faces

and whisper where our dignity was lost!
Because the warden is my cousin, my

mountain friends hunt in summer, when the deer

cherish each rattler-ridden spring, and I

have waited hours by a pool in fear

that manhood would require I shoot, or that

the steady drip of the hill would dull my ear

to a snake whispering near the log I sat

upon, and listened to the yelping cheer

of dogs and men resounding ridge to ridge.

 

I flinched at every lonely rifle crack,

my knuckles whitening where I gripped the edge

of age and clung, like retching, sinking back

then gripping once again the monstrous gun,

since I, to be a man, had taken one.
I guess I have a deficiency. God never

said boo to me when as a boy I stood

straining in church with muscular endeavor

for the sweet squirt of salvation.  I never could

see why He spoke to this or that old lady,

 

sending her, hallelujah, down the aisle.

Was I alone in the congregation vile?

Or was their claim of spirit something shady?

And now when I read poets who simply Know,

drinking their imagery from God’s own cup,

 

whose poems "just come," and then, like Topsy, grow,

whereas I always have to make them up,

with never a tremor saying Break this line

or Save this phrase, regardless of its beat,

hear no obscurities which seem Divine,

 

and, knowing not God’s measure, still count feet,

I yearn that reason give me some relief

(besides those lapses when my mind, not soul,

is not so much inspired as out of control).

Non-linear God, help Thou my unbelief!

 
 A long eugenic past

reduces roses to

a vain and pampered caste.

 

Their charm is artifice,

their fragile shell of cells

unfit for wilderness.

 

Their languid symmetries

and anorexic airs

exalt deformities.

 

A run of blossoms, thick

and tangled by the road,

displays a truer pick.

 

Prefer the bindweed vines

that cannot stand alone

yet clench the mossy spines

 

of trees and grasp as tight

as nightmares or disease

while hoarding hints of light.

 

By cloning a delight,

obsessing towards some form,

we dull what should excite.

 

A rose bouquet contrives

to label wordless joy

when nothing true survives.
Mulberries drop; tart purple rots to wine.

Plump sparrows celebrate and gorge like swine.

Perhaps their revelry should be delayed

Since cats appreciate a marinade.
The flower children gone to seed

Bake brownies for the PTA

And give to liberals in need.

 

Their ponytails display some gray

And nothing tie-dyed ever fits

Despite the tofu and sorbet.

 

Now they are mocked as "hippie-crits"

By free-range children who refuse

To heed their parents' tired views

On love and peace and endless summer.
We saw the mass grave at the Moscow Zoo.

A sullen man dug up a human skull

Then held it high for journalists to view.

Forensic specialists arrived to cull

Remains and clues from this forgotten plot

On which the zoo still plans to cage a bear.

The experts guessed these prisoners were shot

For special reasons; no one was aware

Of comparable scenes at urban sites.

No one knew if these bones belonged to spies,

Suspected Jews or zealous Trotskyites,

So none of us displayed the least surprise

When bureaucrats emerged from quiet cars

To hint this might have been the work of czars.Narcissus, I no longer haunt the canyons

and the crypts.  I thrive and multiply;

uncounted daughters are my new companions.

 

We are the voicemail's ponderous reply

to the computers making random calls.

We are the Muzak in the empty malls,

the laughtrack on the reruns late at night,

the distant siren's chilling lullaby,

the steady chirp of things that simplify

their scheduled lives.  You know I could recite

more, but you never cared for my recitals.

 

I do not miss you, do not need you here—

I can repeat the words of your disciples

telling lovers what they need to hear.I dream the Florida of Body Heat

With Kathleen Turner twisting in her dress,

Wind chimes unsettling my sweaty sleep

And lovers marinating in deceit.

 

It is a place of sudden lusciousness

Where sheriffs know to bury bodies deep,

The trailer parks are called communities

And reptiles wait for opportunities.

 

As swamp gas rises near the local dive,

Old men debate an alien event.

 

I curse slow traffic off  I-95

Though handmade signs remind me to repent.

 

Past reeds and strip-mall parking lots I dive,

Still wondering where Kathleen Turner went.The goose that laid the golden egg

Died looking up its crotch

To find out how its sphincter worked.

 

Would you lay well?  Don't watch.At the market Philbert Spicer

Peered into the bacon slicer—

Whiz! the wicked slicer sped

Back and forth across his head

Quickly shaving—what a shock!—

Fifty chips off Phil's old block,

Stopping just above the eyebrows.

Phil's not one of them thar highbrows.Out walking ties left over from a track

Where nothing travels now but rust and grass,

I could take stock in something that would pass

Bearing down Hell-bent from behind my back:

A thing to sidestep or go down before,

Far off, indifferent as that curfew's wail

The evening wind flings like a sack of mail

Or close up as the moon whose headbeam stirs

A flock of cloud to make tracks. Down to strafe

Bristle-backed grass a hawk falls—there's a screech

Of steel wrenched taut till severed. Out of reach

Or else beneath desiring, I go safe,

Walk on, tensed for a leap, unreconciled

To a dark void all kindness.

                                           When I spill

The salt I throw the Devil some and, still,

I let them sprinkle water on my child.Molt that skin! Lift that face!—you'll go far.

Grow like Proteus yet more bizarre.

In perpetual throes

Majors metamorphose—

Only minors remain who they are.To Someone Who Insisted I Look Up Someone

 

I rang them up while touring Timbuctoo,

Those bosom chums to whom you're known as "Who?"

 

Two Lovers Make Love Despite Their Sunburns

 

With motion slow and gingerly they place

Their outward forms, broiled bright as carapace,

Like linesmen handling bared high-tension wires,

Dreading the surges of abrupt desires.

 

(No title)

 

None but the Spirit, moving and igniting,

Deserves the credit in Creative Writing.Here lies resting, out of breath,

Out of turns, Elizabeth

Whose quicksilver toes not quite

Cleared the whirring edge of night.

 

Earth whose circles round us skim

Till they catch the lightest limb,

Shelter now Elizabeth

And for her sake trip up Death.

 Nothing in Heaven functions as it ought:

Peter's bifocals, blindly sat on, crack;

His gates lurch wide with the cackle of a cock,

Not turn with a hush of gold as Milton had thought;

Gangs of the slaughtered innocents keep huffing

The nimbus off the Venerable Bede

Like that of an old dandelion gone to seed;

And the beatific choir keep breaking up, coughing.

 

But Hell, sleek Hell, hath no freewheeling part:

None takes his own sweet time, none quickens pace.

Ask anyone, "How come you here, poor heart?"—

And he will slot a quarter through his face.

You'll hear an instant click, a tear will start

Imprinted with an abstract of his case.Toe upon toe, a snowing flesh,

A gold of lemon, root and rind,

She sifts in sunlight down the stairs

With nothing on. Nor on her mind.

 

We spy beneath the banister

A constant thresh of thigh on thigh—

Her lips imprint the swinging air

That parts to let her parts go by.

 

One woman waterfall, she wears

Her slow descent like a long cape

And pausing, on the final stair,

Collects her motions into shape.Old tumbril rolling with me till I die,

Divided face I'm hung with, hindside-to,

How can a peace be drawn between us, who

Never see eye to eye?

 

Why, when it seems I speak straight from the heart

Most solemn thought, do you too have to speak,

Let out a horselaugh, whistle as I break

The news to Mother that I must depart?

 

Moon always waxing full, barrage balloon,

Vesuvius upside down, dual rump roast,

Cave of the Winds, my Mississippi coast,

Cyclops forever picking up and chucking stone,

 

Caboose, poor ass I'm saddled with from birth,

Without your act, the dirty deed I share,

How can the stuck-up spirit in me bear

Coming back down to earth?You touch me.

One by one

In each cell of my body

A hearth comes on.Behind the bathroom door, I move as if

By rote, then stand, at last, before a glass

All fogged with steam–the shower's daily gift

That keeps me from my face.  It comes to this

 

Each morning, but . . . from here on in, I'll cut

Not just my own, but someone else's cheek:

That stubbled skin I kissed when I was eight.

Its beard is mine now.  Now no longer sleek

 

With boyhood's smooth, untroubled flesh, my jaw

Seems firmly set against my father's blade.

Each day, the mirror's foamed facade, scraped raw

And red, comes clearer from its masquerade

 

As someone else.  He's doubled now.  We trade

Our places, rinse and slap and towel down.

Now twenty-eight, his age when I was made,

I razor off a frowning, lathered clown

 

Whose throat is his.  Our Slavic jowls and cheeks,

Inflected by an upper lip too thin

For shaving safely, wreak their havoc:  nicks

And cuts we've learned to take upon the chin.

 

The two of us, who share a dimple now,

A pair of laugh lines, one deep philtrum, meet

Each morning, paint like mimes, and like mimes, saw

With single, silent, simple steel.  We greet

 

The day in one another, realize

Our more-than-homely task, and know for good,

We need not ask what's in each other's eyes,

For here is where I've drawn my only blood.Across the field and far beyond,

Twin elevators rise.  They say,

With concrete pride, that grain–au fond–

Lies at their feet.  Some Pharaoh may

 

Have raised them to this height, these sleek

Grey columns turning almost white

In noonday sun.  Soaring, they speak

Of other things, no doubt:  of light

 

That leads the eye toward Heaven, high

Above, of stewards here that seek

To store up bread on Earth.  The sky

Around them knows their worth, and, meek

 

And blue, recedes to let them show

Their faith in what cannot be topped:

A neon cross prepared to glow

When night comes on, and God's sun's stopped.

 No matter what was said by Weldon Kees,

The son I never had

Has never made me feel that bad.

In fact, I tender no apologies

 

Whatever.  Ever since I made my choice,

I've felt no need to live

A boy's life over, or to give

Some unborn, ideal child his earthly voice.

 

What would he say?  Had he my prompt and cue

For passion, what would be

Its object?  What would he tell me,

Who never was the man he never knew?The raking done, the cut grass bagged and set

Upon the curb, he looks to clear a space

To rest where aching back and deck chair meet.

The twilight settles down at summer's pace

And draws his eye where western sky and sun

Conspire to paint his working day an end

Of gaudy purple fire.  And though retired,

He feels the heft of tools still in his hand.

He holds his drink as if it were a haft

Of ash, and thinks of what that hand has done.

The frosted glass of lemonade perspires

As dusk comes on.  One sugared swallow left,

He lifts it, like a chalice, in a toast

To night and all the toil he misses most.Because it seemed to some that he was slow,

Or smiled too much at many simple things,

One might have thought him dumb.  It was not so.

The way one waits for what the mailman brings,

We listened for his step and watched that door

That said his overcoated form was back

From where he went when we were five and four.

We saw that he had more than just a knack

For lifting us aloft or playing horse.

Both broad of back and smarter than a whip,

My father never took a college course.

And yet, I learned his learning was my light

By kissing, like a bird who bent to sip,

The stubbled cheek he'd turn to me each night.

 Cocky and freshly spurred, he climbed

Amid the alien corn:  green row

On row arrayed in June and primed.

He climbed and saw those ranked spears grow

 

As close as ears could get to tracks.

Far off, four rails consumed their ties

Until they were the least of facts

And disappeared before his eyes.

 

This was his summer job:  to dig

Heels in, step up, belt on, come down.

But slung back in his aerie's rig,

A yellow hard hat for a crown,

 

The lineman only meant to sight

How far his lonely kingdom ran

From such a pole, at such a height

As might become a brand new man.

 

He strung the wire and walked till Fall,

To see what might be out of joint.

But nothing there seemed wrong at all,

From vantage clear to vanishing point.To build these piles, not difficult at all

If damp and chance and practice will conspire,

I set the claw-foot tines down in the fall—

That time my town forbids the use of fire—

And drag, as if a bird scratching for feed,

Then with a virtuoso's flippant skill

Born out of nothing half so dull as need,

Process to hustle leaves onto a hill.

It grows by dint of half-a-forearm's twist.

The rustling oaks and wads of maples thick

As bank notes mount and mount, it's in the wrist—

The heavy, expert use of it to flick

These butcher-paper-brown and yellow packs

Up high and higher, higher still, until

They start to look like hay in Monet stacks

The farm hands build in Frost.  So, with a will

And arm, those leaves are tossed that long have lain

In sodden strata, mulch re-thatched in heaps.

The tannic acids that have left their stain

On paving stones take hold in sun that steeps

Them in their rotting molds and potpourris

Of Indian summer.  Now I long to smoke

And smell this autumn's simmering of teas

So richer than the summer's, one might choke.

But these are other times and other falls

The winds have driven down.  I mind the law

The way I mind the lawn, as labor calls

Me from my past and from that sense of awe

Once everyone would own to:  smells so strong

And sweet and pungent they'd intoxicate

With incense in ascent in braids of long

Grey steam.  But that was then; it is too late

By half by now to sacrifice the leaves

To late November gods who are not there.

I think of tall brown penny rolls of sheaves,

Then drink the last lost brew that scents the air.The world has thrown its clothes away—

The winter winds, the rain, the cold—

And wears a cloak of sunshine, bold

And clear and shining all the day.

 

Now every creature's come to say

That new clothes have replaced the old:

The world has thrown its clothes away.

The winter winds, the rain, the cold

 

Are gone, and every stream must play

In finery the sun's unrolled

With silver sequins, coins of gold.

All waters spangle, ray by ray.

The world has thrown its clothes away.A sound like a rusty pump beneath our window

Woke us at dawn.  Drawing the curtains back,

We saw—through milky light, above the doghouse—

A blue jay lecturing a neighbor's cat

So fiercely that, at first, it seemed to wonder

When birds forgot the diplomacy of flight

And met, instead, each charge with a wild swoop,

Metallic cry, and angry thrust of beak.

 

Later, we found the reason.  Near the fence

Among the flowerless stalks of daffodils,

A weak piping of feathers.  Too late now to go back

To nest again among the sheltering leaves.

And so, harrying the dog, routing the cat,

And taking sole possession of the yard,

The mother swooped all morning.

 

                                                    I found her there

Still fluttering round my head, still scattering

The troops of blackbirds, head cocked toward my car

As if it were some lurid animal,

When I returned from work.  Still keeping faith.

As if what I had found by afternoon

Silent and still and hidden in tall grass

Might rise again above the fallen world;

As if the dead were not past mothering.

 To stop the wheels of state, I made

My life a kind of counter friction

And went to jail, my tax unpaid,

Until a friend with less conviction

 

Paid so its cogs might turn again

To spit me out.  And as I stood

Behind those four thick walls of stone,

That heavy door of iron and wood,

 

I saw how states and institutions

Must be half-witted, thinking men

Are merely flesh and blood and bones

To be locked up at their discretion.

 

The night I spent in jail was novel

And interesting enough:  My cell

Was clean and neat on my arrival—

It might have been a small hotel

 

The way the inmates leaned to chat

In doorways till the lockup call.

Once learning where to hang my hat,

I took my station at the wall

 

And gazed out through its grille, as pages

Of history seemed to waft my town

Backward to the Middle Ages,

Turning our Concord to the Rhine.

 

Next morning, through an oblong slot,

They passed our meal—brown hunks of bread

And steaming pints of chocolate --

And after having breakfasted,

 

My roommate, who spent mornings haying

In neighboring fields each day till noon,

Bade me good-bye and parted, saying

He doubted we'd be meeting soon.

 

Let out myself, I then proceeded

Across the street to fetch the shoe

I'd left to mend, then unimpeded

Strolled slowly down an avenue

 

And past the square and when last seen

On top a hill two miles from town,

Was lost in huckleberrying,

My conscience clear, my duty done. close the book on Crime and Punishment

And think of you, my friend, the gifted student,

Who switched your major, once at M.I.T.,

To history, then anthropology—

Through half the catalogue in seven years,

First in, then out of school, grinding your gears.

Playing Raskolnikov, your plight became

Almost a joke between us.  Now that name

Reminds me how the spiralling depression

That dragged you from confusion to confession

Blunted your gifts.

                             For fourteen years of hard time

You stalked through Boston, but your only crime

Was killing your own future, spinning wheels

From Cambridge to the Back Bay's cobbled hills

Driving a taxi—or on all-night walks

Roaming the back streets, where, for several blocks,

You fled, one cold night, pounding the cement

Past stop sign, parked car, light, and tenement,

While steadily behind, a shadow gained,

Waving a pistol.  When at last you turned

To face your nemesis, you met no double,

But a common thief, who cursed you for your trouble,

Rifling your wallet with, "What is this shit?

Just some gaddamned IDs—go on, then, keep it,"

Then tossing back your life.

                                           So what's your crime?

What spins you down the sidewalk like a dime

Wobbling, wobbling . . . always just off-center

As autumn passes and approaching winter

Makes Boston your Siberia, your fate

The tragedy you lived to recreate

For me each summer, turning your life to art,

While I, who should have been your counterpart,

Kept both at a safe distance, and now write

What you said then with such criminal delight.

Faced with a call to arms, he scorned those lies

That others packed like socks into their duffle,

Knowing that, winged by shot, no soul would rise

Out of the scuffle,

 

That virtue was no shield with ghostly glamour

To blind an enemy or block a shell;

That cased in ego's large Vulcanic armor

God-like Achilles fell.

 

Better, he thought, to slave, a hired man

For some dirt farmer, gnawing on wooden bread,

Than rule, a decorated veteran,

Over the wasted dead.

 

Thus citing precedents, he made his choice,

Never to march in ranks, now forward, backward,

Except to shout with others NO MORE TROYS,

Waving a placard.

 

Let others die.  He traced memorials

Which like long roll calls named those gone to glory,

Then in prestigious periodicals

Published their story.What's a blush?

A flicker of hellfire

felt; seen, like sunburn, but,

fortunately, outgrown

like adolescence.

Still, we're not done

with the flesh's mortifications.

Caught with a thumb

up a nostril, or a hand

down our pants,

we're all galled by ourselves.

There you are now, bent double,

bravely feigning indifference

to the lump in your pants—

or flushed, menopausal

in mid-sentence, while flirting . . .

To endure that ignominy

again and again.

 

No wormwood, no brimstone—

hell's a black-tie affair

to which you're invited

accidentally, and come

underdressed, undermannered,

nervous, laughing too loud

between gaffes,

malapropisms,

and badly timed jokes.

There's a black fleck of spinach

wedged between your front teeth,

which you've only just noticed

in the bathroom upstairs,

looking up to glimpse, there,

in the half-drawn-back glass

of the medicine cabinet mirror,

your host's eyes watching you

lightly fingering his things.

 

Still, it's not over, yet—

it's eternal, remember?

as in that immeasurably

long instant between

the key rattling home in

the lock as you struggle,

handcuffed by shirt sleeves,

pants down past your knees,

and the half second later when

the door opens and

your mouth makes an O . . . .

 

Then the reel starts again.We're playing Simon Says.  Remember how?

(Simon says remember how, so it's okay.)

It's not enough to do what Simon says,

It's what he says he says that you obey.

The rules are Simon's.  All right, let's begin.

Simon says, Don't read this sentence or you're out.

You did?  That's it, game's over, Simon wins,

However much you plead, protest, or pout.

Bound by the iron chain of such curved sense,

Simon himself must discontinue play.

There's no appeal to gray omnipotence.

What Simon says he says he can't unsay.A road of dirt and stone

lies half under trees' shade.

 

Dust curtains sun,

blights flower, dulls leaf sheen.

 

Heavy, heavy the scent

of honeysuckle, heavy as rain.

 

Its sweetness falls

honey-thick on sense.

 

It dampens the dust down.Do not talk to me just now; let me be.

We were up to our ears in pain and loss, and so

I am reuniting all the lovers, fishing the drowned from the sea.

 

I am removing daggers from breasts and re-

zipping.  Making it clear who loves whom—please go.

Do not talk to me just now; let me be.

 

I am redistributing flowers and potions and flutes, changing key;

rewriting letters, pulling spring out of the snow.

I am reuniting all the lovers, fishing the drowned from the sea.

 

I am making madness sane, setting prisoners free,

cooling the consumptive cheek, the fevered glow.

Do not talk to me just now; let me be.

 

Pinkerton and Butterfly make such a happy

couple; Violetta has five gardens now to show ...

I am reuniting all the lovers, fishing the drowned from the sea.

 

The jester and his daughter have moved to a distant city.

Lucia colors her hair now, did you know?

Come, let us talk, sit together and be

lovers reunited, fished like the drowned from the sea.I came up out of the subway and there were
people standing on the steps as if they knew
something I didn’t. This was in the Cold War,
and nuclear fallout. I looked and the whole avenue
was empty, I mean utterly, and I thought,
The birds have abandoned our cities and the plague
of silence multiplies through their arteries, they fought
the war and they lost and there’s nothing subtle or vague
in this horrifying vacuum that is New York. I caught
the blare of a loudspeaker repeatedly warning
the last few people, maybe strolling lovers in their walk,
that the world was about to end that morning
on Sixth or Seventh Avenue with no people going to work
in that uncontradicted, horrifying perspective.
It was no way to die, but it’s also no way to live.
Well, if we burnt, it was at least New York.

II

Everybody in New York is in a sitcom.
I’m in a Latin American novel, one
in which an egret-haired viejo shakes with some
invisible sorrow, some obscene affliction,
and chronicles it secretly, till it shows in his face,
the parenthetical wrinkles confirming his fiction
to his deep embarrassment. Look, it’s
just the old story of a heart that won’t call it quits
whatever the odds, quixotic. It’s just one that’ll
break nobody’s heart, even if the grizzled colonel
pitches from his steed in a cavalry charge, in a battle
that won’t make him a statue. It is the hell
of ordinary, unrequited love. Watch these egrets
trudging the lawn in a dishevelled troop, white banners
trailing forlornly; they are the bleached regrets
of an old man’s memoirs, printed stanzas.
showing their hinged wings like wide open secrets.

III

Who has removed the typewriter from my desk,
so that I am a musician without his piano
with emptiness ahead as clear and grotesque
as another spring? My veins bud, and I am so
full of poems, a wastebasket of black wire.
The notes outside are visible; sparrows will
line antennae like staves, the way springs were,
but the roofs are cold and the great grey river
where a liner glides, huge as a winter hill,
moves imperceptibly like the accumulating
years. I have no reason to forgive her
for what I brought on myself. I am past hating,
past the longing for Italy where blowing snow
absolves and whitens a kneeling mountain range
outside Milan. Through glass, I am waiting
for the sound of a bird to unhinge the beginning
of spring, but my hands, my work, feel strange
without the rusty music of my machine. No words
for the Arctic liner moving down the Hudson, for the mange
of old snow moulting from the roofs. No poems. No birds.

IV

The Sweet Life Café

If I fall into a grizzled stillness
sometimes, over the red-chequered tablecloth
outdoors of the Sweet Life Café, when the noise
of Sunday traffic in the Village is soft as a moth
working in storage, it is because of age
which I rarely admit to, or, honestly, even think of.
I have kept the same furies, though my domestic rage
is illogical, diabetic, with no lessening of love
though my hand trembles wildly, but not over this page.
My lust is in great health, but, if it happens
that all my towers shrivel to dribbling sand,
joy will still bend the cane-reeds with my pen’s
elation on the road to Vieuxfort with fever-grass
white in the sun, and, as for the sea breaking
in the gap at Praslin, they add up to the grace
I have known and which death will be taking
from my hand on this chequered tablecloth in this good place.Where are your monuments, your battles, martyrs?
Where is your tribal memory? Sirs,
in that grey vault. The sea. The sea
has locked them up. The sea is History.

First, there was the heaving oil,
heavy as chaos;
then, like a light at the end of a tunnel,

the lantern of a caravel,
and that was Genesis.
Then there were the packed cries,
the shit, the moaning:

Exodus.
Bone soldered by coral to bone,
mosaics
mantled by the benediction of the shark’s shadow,

that was the Ark of the Covenant.
Then came from the plucked wires
of sunlight on the sea floor

the plangent harps of the Babylonian bondage,
as the white cowries clustered like manacles
on the drowned women,

and those were the ivory bracelets
of the Song of Solomon,
but the ocean kept turning blank pages

looking for History.
Then came the men with eyes heavy as anchors
who sank without tombs,

brigands who barbecued cattle,
leaving their charred ribs like palm leaves on the shore,
then the foaming, rabid maw

of the tidal wave swallowing Port Royal,
and that was Jonah,
but where is your Renaissance?

Sir, it is locked in them sea-sands
out there past the reef’s moiling shelf,
where the men-o’-war floated down;

strop on these goggles, I’ll guide you there myself.
It’s all subtle and submarine,
through colonnades of coral,

past the gothic windows of sea-fans
to where the crusty grouper, onyx-eyed,
blinks, weighted by its jewels, like a bald queen;

and these groined caves with barnacles
pitted like stone
are our cathedrals,

and the furnace before the hurricanes:
Gomorrah. Bones ground by windmills
into marl and cornmeal,

and that was Lamentations—
that was just Lamentations,
it was not History;

then came, like scum on the river’s drying lip,
the brown reeds of villages
mantling and congealing into towns,

and at evening, the midges’ choirs,
and above them, the spires
lancing the side of God

as His son set, and that was the New Testament.

Then came the white sisters clapping
to the waves’ progress,
and that was Emancipation—

jubilation, O jubilation—
vanishing swiftly
as the sea’s lace dries in the sun,

but that was not History,
that was only faith,
and then each rock broke into its own nation;

then came the synod of flies,
then came the secretarial heron,
then came the bullfrog bellowing for a vote,

fireflies with bright ideas
and bats like jetting ambassadors
and the mantis, like khaki police,

and the furred caterpillars of judges
examining each case closely,
and then in the dark ears of ferns

and in the salt chuckle of rocks
with their sea pools, there was the sound
like a rumour without any echo

of History, really beginning.A wind is ruffling the tawny pelt
Of Africa. Kikuyu, quick as flies,
Batten upon the bloodstreams of the veldt.
Corpses are scattered through a paradise.
Only the worm, colonel of carrion, cries:
“Waste no compassion on these separate dead!”
Statistics justify and scholars seize
The salients of colonial policy.
What is that to the white child hacked in bed?
To savages, expendable as Jews?

Threshed out by beaters, the long rushes break
In a white dust of ibises whose cries
Have wheeled since civilization’s dawn
From the parched river or beast-teeming plain.
The violence of beast on beast is read
As natural law, but upright man
Seeks his divinity by inflicting pain.
Delirious as these worried beasts, his wars
Dance to the tightened carcass of a drum,
While he calls courage still that native dread
Of the white peace contracted by the dead.

Again brutish necessity wipes its hands
Upon the napkin of a dirty cause, again
A waste of our compassion, as with Spain,
The gorilla wrestles with the superman.
I who am poisoned with the blood of both,
Where shall I turn, divided to the vein?
I who have cursed
The drunken officer of British rule, how choose
Between this Africa and the English tongue I love?
Betray them both, or give back what they give?
How can I face such slaughter and be cool?
How can I turn from Africa and live?The growing idleness of summer grass
With its frail kites of furious butterflies
Requests the lemonade of simple praise
In scansion gentler than my hammock swings
And rituals no more upsetting than a
Black maid shaking linen as she sings
The plain notes of some Protestant hosanna—
Since I lie idling from the thought in things—

Or so they should, until I hear the cries
Of two small children hunting yellow wings,
Who break my Sabbath with the thought of sin.
Brother and sister, with a common pin,
Frowning like serious lepidopterists.
The little surgeon pierces the thin eyes.
Crouched on plump haunches, as a mantis prays
She shrieks to eviscerate its abdomen.
The lesson is the same. The maid removes
Both prodigies from their interest in science.
The girl, in lemon frock, begins to scream
As the maimed, teetering thing attempts its flight.
She is herself a thing of summery light,
Frail as a flower in this blue August air,
Not marked for some late grief that cannot speak.

The mind swings inward on itself in fear
Swayed towards nausea from each normal sign.
Heredity of cruelty everywhere,
And everywhere the frocks of summer torn,
The long look back to see where choice is born,
As summer grass sways to the scythe’s design.The fist clenched round my heart
loosens a little, and I gasp
brightness; but it tightens
again. When have I ever not loved
the pain of love? But this has moved

past love to mania. This has the strong
clench of the madman, this is
gripping the ledge of unreason, before
plunging howling into the abyss.

Hold hard then, heart. This way at least you live.This rectangle of sea; this portion
Of ripple; this conductor of midday heat;
This that the cat steps delicately on;

This that the poor of the world look up to
On humid nights, as if it were a crumpled
Heaven they could be lifted into.

God's mansion is made of many-coloured zinc,
Like a balmyard I once went to, Peace
And Love written across its breadth.

This clanging of feet and boots,
Men running from Babylon whose guns
Are drawn against the small measure

Of their lives; this galvanised sheet; this
Corrugated iron. The road to hell is fenced
On each side with zinc —

Just see Dawn Scott's installation,
A Cultural Object, its circles of zinc
Like the flight path of johncrows.

The American penny is made from zinc,
Coated with copper, but still enough zinc
That a man who swallowed 425 coins died.

This that poisons us; this that holds
Its nails like a crucified Christ, but only
For a little while. It rises with the hurricane,

Sails in the wind, a flying guillotine.
This, a plate for our severed heads;
This that sprinkles rust

Over our sleep like obeah;
This that covers us; this that chokes us;
This, the only roof we could afford. If this short poem stretches beyond
its first line, then already, already,
it has failed, become something else,
something its author did not intend
for it to become, a misbehaving,
rambunctious, own-way thing,
its circuitous journey a secret known
only to itself, its tongue its own.
The author is destined, I am afraid,
to write poems that escape him.
This, for instance, was to be just one
line long, or even one long line,
dedicated to Mervyn Morris and his love
of brevity, but it has become something else
entirely. The poem sings its own song,
reaches its own end in its own time.in which the cartographer explains himself

You might say
my job is not
to lose myself exactly
but to imagine
what loss might feel like – 
the sudden creeping pace,
the consultation with trees and blue
fences and whatever else
might prove a landmark.
My job is to imagine the widening
of the unfamiliar and also
the widening ache of it;
to anticipate the ironic
question: how did we find
ourselves here? My job is
to untangle the tangled,
to unworry the concerned,
to guide you out from cul-de-sacs
into which you may have wrongly turned.


ii.     in which the rastaman disagrees

The rastaman has another reasoning. 
He says – now that man’s job is never straight-
forward or easy. Him work is to make thin and crushable 
all that is big and as real as ourselves; is to make flat 
all that is high and rolling; is to make invisible and wutliss 
plenty things that poor people cyaa do without – like board 
houses, and the corner shop from which Miss Katie sell 
her famous peanut porridge. And then again 
the mapmaker’s work is to make visible 
all them things that shoulda never exist in the first place 
like the conquest of pirates, like borders, 
like the viral spread of governments


iii.

The cartographer says
no – 
What I do is science. I show 
the earth as it is, without bias. 
I never fall in love. I never get involved 
with the muddy affairs of land. 
Too much passion unsteadies the hand. 
I aim to show the full 
of a place in just a glance.


iv.

The rastaman thinks, draw me a map of what you see 
then I will draw a map of what you never see 
and guess me whose map will be bigger than whose? 
Guess me whose map will tell the larger truth?Night funeral
     In Harlem:

     Where did they get
     Them two fine cars?

Insurance man, he did not pay—
His insurance lapsed the other day—
Yet they got a satin box
for his head to lay.

     Night funeral
     In Harlem:

     Who was it sent
     That wreath of flowers?

Them flowers came
from that poor boy’s friends—
They’ll want flowers, too,
When they meet their ends.

     Night funeral 
     in Harlem:

     Who preached that
     Black boy to his grave?

Old preacher man
Preached that boy away—
Charged Five Dollars
His girl friend had to pay.

     Night funeral
     In Harlem:

When it was all over
And the lid shut on his head
and the organ had done played 
and the last prayers been said 
and six pallbearers
Carried him out for dead
And off down Lenox Avenue
That long black hearse done sped,
     The street light 
     At his corner
     Shined just like a tear—
That boy that they was mournin’
Was so dear, so dear
To them folks that brought the flowers,
To that girl who paid the preacher man—
It was all their tears that made
     That poor boy’s
     Funeral grand.

     Night funeral
     In Harlem.You say I O.K.ed
LONG DISTANCE?
O.K.ed it when?
My goodness, Central
That was then!

I’m mad and disgusted
With that Negro now.
I don’t pay no REVERSED
CHARGES nohow.

You say, I will pay it—
Else you’ll take out my phone?
You better let
My phone alone.

I didn’t ask him
To telephone me.
Roscoe knows darn well
LONG DISTANCE
Ain’t free.

If I ever catch him,
Lawd, have pity!
Calling me up
From Kansas City.

Just to say he loves me!
I knowed that was so.
Why didn’t he tell me some’n
I don’t know?

For instance, what can
Them other girls do
That Alberta K. Johnson
Can’t do—and more, too?

What’s that, Central?
You say you don’t care
Nothing about my
Private affair?

Well, even less about your
PHONE BILL, does I care!

Un-humm-m! . . . Yes!
You say I gave my O.K.?
Well, that O.K. you may keep—

But I sure ain’t gonna pay!Hold fast to dreams 
For if dreams die
Life is a broken-winged bird
That cannot fly.

Hold fast to dreams
For when dreams go
Life is a barren field
Frozen with snow.To fling my arms wide
In some place of the sun,
To whirl and to dance
Till the white day is done.
Then rest at cool evening
Beneath a tall tree
While night comes on gently,
    Dark like me—
That is my dream!

To fling my arms wide
In the face of the sun,
Dance!  Whirl!  Whirl!
Till the quick day is done.
Rest at pale evening . . .
A tall, slim tree . . .
Night coming tenderly
    Black like me.The instructor said,

    Go home and write
    a page tonight.
    And let that page come out of you—
    Then, it will be true.

I wonder if it’s that simple?
I am twenty-two, colored, born in Winston-Salem.
I went to school there, then Durham, then here
to this college on the hill above Harlem.
I am the only colored student in my class.
The steps from the hill lead down into Harlem,
through a park, then I cross St. Nicholas,
Eighth Avenue, Seventh, and I come to the Y,
the Harlem Branch Y, where I take the elevator
up to my room, sit down, and write this page:

It’s not easy to know what is true for you or me 
at twenty-two, my age. But I guess I’m what 
I feel and see and hear, Harlem, I hear you:
hear you, hear me—we two—you, me, talk on this page.
(I hear New York, too.) Me—who?
Well, I like to eat, sleep, drink, and be in love.
I like to work, read, learn, and understand life.
I like a pipe for a Christmas present,
or records—Bessie, bop, or Bach.
I guess being colored doesn’t make me not like
the same things other folks like who are other races.
So will my page be colored that I write?

Being me, it will not be white. 
But it will be
a part of you, instructor. 
You are white— 
yet a part of me, as I am a part of you. 
That’s American.
Sometimes perhaps you don’t want to be a part of me. 
Nor do I often want to be a part of you.
But we are, that’s true! 
As I learn from you, 
I guess you learn from me— 
although you’re older—and white— 
and somewhat more free.

This is my page for English B.I worked for a woman,
She wasn’t mean—
But she had a twelve-room
House to clean.

Had to get breakfast,
Dinner, and supper, too—
Then take care of her children
When I got through.

Wash, iron, and scrub,
Walk the dog around—
It was too much,
Nearly broke me down.

I said, Madam,
Can it be
You trying to make a
Pack-horse out of me?

She opened her mouth.
She cried, Oh, no!
You know, Alberta,
I love you so!

I said, Madam,
That may be true—
But I’ll be dogged
If I love you!Over There,
            World War II.
			
Dear Fellow Americans,
I write this letter
Hoping times will be better
When this war
Is through.
I’m a Tan-skinned Yank
Driving a tank.
I ask, WILL V-DAY
BE ME-DAY, TOO?

I wear a U. S. uniform.
I’ve done the enemy much harm,
I’ve driven back
The Germans and the Japs,
From Burma to the Rhine.
On every battle line,
I’ve dropped defeat
Into the Fascists’ laps.

I am a Negro American
Out to defend my land
Army, Navy, Air Corps—
I am there.
I take munitions through,
I fight—or stevedore, too.
I face death the same as you do 
Everywhere.

I’ve seen my buddy lying
Where he fell.
I’ve watched him dying
I promised him that I would try
To make our land a land
Where his son could be a man—
And there’d be no Jim Crow birds
Left in our sky.

So this is what I want to know:
When we see Victory’s glow,
Will you still let old Jim Crow
Hold me back?
When all those foreign folks who’ve waited—
Italians, Chinese, Danes—are liberated.
Will I still be ill-fated
Because I’m black?

Here in my own, my native land,
Will the Jim Crow laws still stand?
Will Dixie lynch me still
When I return?
Or will you comrades in arms
From the factories and the farms,
Have learned what this war
Was fought for us to learn?

When I take off my uniform,
Will I be safe from harm—
Or will you do me
As the Germans did the Jews?
When I’ve helped this world to save,
Shall I still be color’s slave?
Or will Victory change
Your antiquated views?

You can’t say I didn’t fight
To smash the Fascists’ might.
You can’t say I wasn’t with you
in each battle.
As a soldier, and a friend.
When this war comes to an end,
Will you herd me in a Jim Crow car
Like cattle?

Or will you stand up like a man
At home and take your stand
For Democracy?
That’s all I ask of you.
When we lay the guns away
To celebrate
Our Victory Day
WILL V-DAY BE ME-DAY, TOO?
That’s what I want to know.

            Sincerely,
                GI Joe.I went down to the river,
I set down on the bank.
I tried to think but couldn’t,
So I jumped in and sank.

I came up once and hollered!
I came up twice and cried!
If that water hadn’t a-been so cold
I might’ve sunk and died.

     But it was      Cold in that water!      It was cold!

I took the elevator
Sixteen floors above the ground.
I thought about my baby
And thought I would jump down.

I stood there and I hollered!
I stood there and I cried!
If it hadn’t a-been so high
I might’ve jumped and died.

     But it was      High up there!      It was high!

So since I’m still here livin’,
I guess I will live on.
I could’ve died for love—
But for livin’ I was born

Though you may hear me holler,
And you may see me cry—
I’ll be dogged, sweet baby,
If you gonna see me die.

     Life is fine!      Fine as wine!      Life is fine!I, too, sing America.

I am the darker brother.
They send me to eat in the kitchen
When company comes,
But I laugh,
And eat well,
And grow strong.

Tomorrow,
I’ll be at the table
When company comes.
Nobody’ll dare
Say to me,
“Eat in the kitchen,"
Then.

Besides, 
They’ll see how beautiful I am
And be ashamed—

I, too, am America.When I was home de
Sunshine seemed like gold.
When I was home de
Sunshine seemed like gold.
Since I come up North de
Whole damn world’s turned cold.

I was a good boy,
Never done no wrong.
Yes, I was a good boy,
Never done no wrong,
But this world is weary
An’ de road is hard an’ long.

I fell in love with
A gal I thought was kind.
Fell in love with
A gal I thought was kind.
She made me lose ma money
An’ almost lose ma mind.

Weary, weary,
Weary early in de morn.
Weary, weary,
Early, early in de morn.
I’s so weary
I wish I’d never been born.Droning a drowsy syncopated tune,
Rocking back and forth to a mellow croon,
     I heard a Negro play.
Down on Lenox Avenue the other night
By the pale dull pallor of an old gas light
     He did a lazy sway . . .
     He did a lazy sway . . .
To the tune o’ those Weary Blues.
With his ebony hands on each ivory key
He made that poor piano moan with melody.
     O Blues!
Swaying to and fro on his rickety stool
He played that sad raggy tune like a musical fool.
     Sweet Blues!
Coming from a black man’s soul.
     O Blues!
In a deep song voice with a melancholy tone
I heard that Negro sing, that old piano moan—
     “Ain’t got nobody in all this world,
       Ain’t got nobody but ma self.
       I’s gwine to quit ma frownin’
       And put ma troubles on the shelf.”

Thump, thump, thump, went his foot on the floor.
He played a few chords then he sang some more—
     “I got the Weary Blues
       And I can’t be satisfied.
       Got the Weary Blues
       And can’t be satisfied—
       I ain’t happy no mo’
       And I wish that I had died.”
And far into the night he crooned that tune.
The stars went out and so did the moon.
The singer stopped playing and went to bed
While the Weary Blues echoed through his head.
He slept like a rock or a man that’s dead.I’ve known rivers:
I’ve known rivers ancient as the world and older than the
     flow of human blood in human veins.

My soul has grown deep like the rivers.

I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young.
I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep.
I looked upon the Nile and raised the pyramids above it.
I heard the singing of the Mississippi when Abe Lincoln 
     went down to New Orleans, and I’ve seen its muddy 
     bosom turn all golden in the sunset.

I’ve known rivers:
Ancient, dusky rivers.

My soul has grown deep like the rivers.Let America be America again.
Let it be the dream it used to be.
Let it be the pioneer on the plain
Seeking a home where he himself is free.

(America never was America to me.)

Let America be the dream the dreamers dreamed—
Let it be that great strong land of love
Where never kings connive nor tyrants scheme
That any man be crushed by one above.

(It never was America to me.)

O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe.

(There’s never been equality for me,
Nor freedom in this “homeland of the free.”)

Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark? 
And who are you that draws your veil across the stars?

I am the poor white, fooled and pushed apart,
I am the Negro bearing slavery’s scars.
I am the red man driven from the land,
I am the immigrant clutching the hope I seek—
And finding only the same old stupid plan
Of dog eat dog, of mighty crush the weak.

I am the young man, full of strength and hope,
Tangled in that ancient endless chain
Of profit, power, gain, of grab the land!
Of grab the gold! Of grab the ways of satisfying need!
Of work the men! Of take the pay!
Of owning everything for one’s own greed!

I am the farmer, bondsman to the soil.
I am the worker sold to the machine.
I am the Negro, servant to you all.
I am the people, humble, hungry, mean—
Hungry yet today despite the dream.
Beaten yet today—O, Pioneers!
I am the man who never got ahead,
The poorest worker bartered through the years.

Yet I’m the one who dreamt our basic dream
In the Old World while still a serf of kings,
Who dreamt a dream so strong, so brave, so true,
That even yet its mighty daring sings
In every brick and stone, in every furrow turned
That’s made America the land it has become.
O, I’m the man who sailed those early seas
In search of what I meant to be my home—
For I’m the one who left dark Ireland’s shore,
And Poland’s plain, and England’s grassy lea,
And torn from Black Africa’s strand I came
To build a “homeland of the free.”

The free?

Who said the free?  Not me?
Surely not me?  The millions on relief today?
The millions shot down when we strike?
The millions who have nothing for our pay?
For all the dreams we’ve dreamed
And all the songs we’ve sung
And all the hopes we’ve held
And all the flags we’ve hung,
The millions who have nothing for our pay—
Except the dream that’s almost dead today.

O, let America be America again—
The land that never has been yet—
And yet must be—the land where every man is free.
The land that’s mine—the poor man’s, Indian’s, Negro’s, ME—
Who made America,
Whose sweat and blood, whose faith and pain,
Whose hand at the foundry, whose plow in the rain,
Must bring back our mighty dream again.

Sure, call me any ugly name you choose—
The steel of freedom does not stain.
From those who live like leeches on the people’s lives,
We must take back our land again,
America!

O, yes,
I say it plain,
America never was America to me,
And yet I swear this oath—
America will be!

Out of the rack and ruin of our gangster death,
The rape and rot of graft, and stealth, and lies,
We, the people, must redeem
The land, the mines, the plants, the rivers.
The mountains and the endless plain—
All, all the stretch of these great green states—
And make America again!Your mother carried you
Out of the smoking ruins of a building
And set you down on this sidewalk
Like a doll bundled in burnt rags,
Where you now stood years later
Talking to a homeless dog,
Half-hidden behind a parked car,
His eyes brimming with hope
As he inched forward, ready for the worst. Millions were dead; everybody was innocent.
I stayed in my room. The President
Spoke of war as of a magic love potion.
My eyes were opened in astonishment.
In a mirror my face appeared to me
Like a twice-canceled postage stamp.

I lived well, but life was awful.
there were so many soldiers that day,
So many refugees crowding the roads.
Naturally, they all vanished
With a touch of the hand.
History licked the corners of its bloody mouth.

On the pay channel, a man and a woman
Were trading hungry kisses and tearing off
Each other's clothes while I looked on
With the sound off and the room dark
Except for the screen where the color
Had too much red in it, too much pink. They explained to me the bloody bandages 
On the floor in the maternity ward in Rochester, N.Y., 
Cured the backache I acquired bowing to my old master, 
Made me stop putting thumbtacks round my bed. 

They showed me an officer on horseback, 
Waving a saber next to a burning farmhouse 
And a barefoot woman in a nightgown, 
Throwing stones after him and calling him Lucifer. 

I was a straw-headed boy in patched overalls. 
Come dark a chicken would roost in my hair. 
Some even laid eggs as I played my ukulele 
And my mother and father crossed themselves. 

Next, I saw myself inside an abandoned gas station 
Constructing a spaceship out of a coffin, 
Red traffic cone, cement mixer and ear warmers, 
When a church lady fainted seeing me in my underwear. 

Some days, however, they opened door after door, 
Always to a different room, and could not find me. 
There'd be only a small squeak now and then, 
As if a miner's canary got caught in a mousetrap. Extraordinary efforts are being made
To hide things from us, my friend.
Some stay up into the wee hours
To search their souls. 
Others undress each other in darkened rooms.

The creaky old elevator
Took us down to the icy cellar first
To show us a mop and a bucket
Before it deigned to ascend again
With a sigh of exasperation.

Under the vast, early-dawn sky
The city lay silent before us.
Everything on hold:
Rooftops and water towers,
Clouds and wisps of white smoke.

We must be patient, we told ourselves,
See if the pigeons will coo now
For the one who comes to her window
To feed them angel cake,
All but invisible, but for her slender arm. Fingers in an overcoat pocket. Fingers sticking out of a black leather glove. The nails chewed raw. One play is called "Thieves' Market," another "Night in a Dime Museum." The fingers when they strip are like bewitching nude bathers or the fake wooden limbs in a cripple factory. No one ever sees the play: you put your hand in somebody else's pocket on the street and feel the action. To find clues where there are none,
That's my job now, I said to the
Dictionary on my desk. The world beyond
My window has grown illegible,
And so has the clock on the wall.
I may strike a match to orient myself

In the meantime, there's the heart
Stopping hush as the building
Empties, the elevators stop running,
The grains of dust stay put.
Hours of quiescent sleuthing
Before the Madonna with the mop

Shuffles down the long corridor
Trying doorknobs, turning mine.
That's just little old me sweating
In the customer's chair, I'll say.
Keep your nose out of it.
I'm not closing up till he breaks. 
I grew up bent over 
a chessboard. 

I loved the word endgame. 

All my cousins looked worried. 

It was a small house 
near a Roman graveyard. 
Planes and tanks 
shook its windowpanes. 

A retired professor of astronomy 
taught me how to play. 

That must have been in 1944. 

In the set we were using, 
the paint had almost chipped off 
the black pieces. 

The white King was missing 
and had to be substituted for. 

I'm told but do not believe 
that that summer I witnessed 
men hung from telephone poles. 

I remember my mother 
blindfolding me a lot. 
She had a way of tucking my head 
suddenly under her overcoat. 

In chess, too, the professor told me, 
the masters play blindfolded, 
the great ones on several boards 
at the same time. In his fear of solitude, he made us. 
Fearing eternity, he gave us time. 
I hear his white cane thumping 
Up and down the hall. 

I expect neighbors to complain, but no. 
The little girl who sobbed 
When her daddy crawled into her bed 
Is quiet now. 

It's quarter to two. 
On this street of darkened pawnshops, 
Welfare hotels and tenements, 
One or two ragged puppets are awake. A world's disappearing.
Little street,
You were too narrow,
Too much in the shade already.

You had only one dog,
One lone child.
You hid your biggest mirror,
Your undressed lovers.

Someone carted them off
In an open truck.
They were still naked, travelling
On their sofa

Over a darkening plain,
Some unknown Kansas or Nebraska
With a storm brewing.
The woman opening a red umbrella

In the truck. The boy
And the dog running after them,
As if after a rooster
With its head chopped off. Of the light in my room:
Its mood swings,
Dark-morning glooms,
Summer ecstasies.

Spider on the wall,
Lamp burning late,
Shoes left by the bed,
I'm your humble scribe.

Dust balls, simple souls
Conferring in the corner.
The pearl earring she lost,
Still to be found.

Silence of falling snow,
Night vanishing without trace,
Only to return.
I'm your humble scribe. It pains me to see an old woman fret over
A few small coins outside a grocery store -
How swiftly I forget her as my own grief
Finds me again - a friend at death's door
And the memory of the night we spent together.

I had so much love in my heart afterward,
I could have run into the street naked
Confident anyone I met would understand
My madness and my need to tell them
About life being both cruel and beautiful,

But I did not - despite the overwhelming evidence:
A crow bent over a dead squirrel in the road,
The lilac bushes flowering in some yard,
And the sight of a dog free from his chain
Searching through a neighbor's trash can. Go inside a stone
That would be my way.
Let somebody else become a dove
Or gnash with a tiger's tooth.
I am happy to be a stone.

From the outside the stone is a riddle:
No one knows how to answer it.
Yet within, it must be cool and quiet
Even though a cow steps on it full weight,
Even though a child throws it in a river,
The stone sinks, slow, unperturbed
To the river bottom
Where the fishes come to knock on it
And listen.

I have seen sparks fly out
When two stones are rubbed.
So perhaps it is not dark inside after all;
Perhaps there is a moon shining
From somewhere, as though behind a hill—
Just enough light to make out
The strange writings, the star charts
On the inner walls. One shows me how to lie down in a field of clover.
Another how to slip my hand under her Sunday skirt.
Another how to kiss with a mouth full of blackberries.
Another how to catch fireflies in jar after dark.

Here is a stable with a single black mare
And the proof of God's existence riding in a red nightgown.
Devil's child--or whatever she was?
Having the nerve to ask me to go get her a whip. Not a peep out of you now
After the bedlam early this morning.
Are you begging pardon of me
Hidden up there among the leaves,
Or are your brains momentarily overtaxed?

You savvy a few things I don't:
The overlooked sunflower seed worth a holler;
The traffic of cats in the yard;
Strangers leaving the widow's house,
Tieless and wearing crooked grins.

Or have you got wind of the world's news?
Some new horror I haven't heard about yet?
Which one of you was so bold as to warn me,
Our sweet setup is in danger?

Kids are playing soldiers down the road,
Pointing their rifles and playing dead.
Little birdies, are you sneaking wary looks
In the thick foliage as you hear me say this? It hangs from heaven to earth. 
There are trees in it, cities, rivers, 
small pigs and moons. In one corner 
the snow falling over a charging cavalry, 
in another women are planting rice. 

You can also see: 
a chicken carried off by a fox, 
a naked couple on their wedding night, 
a column of smoke, 
an evil-eyed woman spitting into a pail of milk. 

What is behind it? 
—Space, plenty of empty space. 

And who is talking now? 
—A man asleep under his hat. 

What happens when he wakes up? 
—He'll go into a barbershop. 
They'll shave his beard, nose, ears, and hair, 
To make him look like everyone else. Where the path to the lake twists out of sight,
A puff of dust, the kind bare feet make running,
Is what I saw in the dying light,
Night swooping down everywhere else.

A low branch heavy with leaves
Swaying momentarily where the shade
Lay thickest, some late bather
Disrobing right there for a quick dip--

(Or my solitude playing a trick on me?)
Pinned hair coming undone, soon to float
As she turns on her back, letting
The dozy current take her as it wishes

Beyond the last drooping branch
To where the sky opens
Black as the water under her white arms,
In the deepening night, deepening hush,

The treetops like charred paper edges,
Even the insects oddly reclusive
While I strained to hear a splash,
Or glimpse her running back to her clothes . . .

And when I did not; I just sat there.
The rare rush of wind in the leaves
Still fooling me now and then,
Until the chill made me go in. My beloved, you who spend your nights
Torturing me
By holding up one mirror after another
To me in the dark,
If there's anything I know to say or do today,
I merit no praise for it,
But owe it to the subtlety of your torments,
And your perseverance in keeping me awake.

All the same, who gave you the right
To judge me in my wretchedness?
What soul white as snow
Compiled this endless list of misdeeds
You read to me every night?
The airs you put on when I tell you to stop
Would make one believe
You were once a bedmate of a Chinese emperor.

I like it best when we do not say a word.
When we lie side by side
Like two lovers after their passion is spent.
Once again, day is breaking.
A small bird in the trees is pouring her heart out
At the miracle of the coming light.
It hurts.
The beauty of a night spent sleepless. Your friend has died, with whom
You roamed the streets,
At all hours, talking philosophy.
So, today you went alone,
Stopping often to change places
With your imaginary companion,
And argue back against yourself
On the subject of appearances:
The world we see in our heads
And the world we see daily,
So difficult to tell apart
When grief and sorrow bow us over. 

You two often got so carried away
You found yourselves in strange neighborhoods
Lost among unfriendly folk,
Having to ask for directions
While on the verge of a supreme insight,
Repeating your question
To an old woman or a child
Both of whom may have been deaf and dumb.

What was that fragment of Heraclitus
You were trying to remember
As you stepped on the butcher's cat?
Meantime, you yourself were lost
Between someone's new black shoe
Left on the sidewalk
And the sudden terror and exhilaration
At the sight of a girl
Dressed up for a night of dancing
Speeding by on roller skates. 
St. John of the Cross wore dark glasses
As he passed me on the street.
St. Theresa of Avila, beautiful and grave,
Turned her back on me.

"Soulmate," they hissed. "It's high time."

I was a blind child, a wind-up toy . . .
I was one of death's juggling red balls
On a certain street corner
Where they peddle things out of suitcases.

The city like a huge cinema
With lights dimmed.
The performance already started.

So many blurred faces in a complicated plot.

The great secret which kept eluding me: knowing who I am . . .

The Redeemer and the Virgin,
Their eyes wide open in the empty church
Where the killer came to hide himself . . .

The new snow on the sidewalk bore footprints
That could have been made by bare feet.
Some unknown penitent guiding me.
In truth, I didn't know where I was going.
My feet were frozen,
My stomach growled.

Four young hoods blocking my way.
Three deadpan, one smiling crazily.

I let them have my black raincoat.

Thinking constantly of the Divine Love 
and the Absolute had disfigured me.
People mistook me for someone else.
I heard voices after me calling out unknown names.
"I'm searching for someone to sell my soul to,"
The drunk who followed me whispered,
While appraising me from head to foot.

At the address I had been given.
The building had large X's over its windows.
I knocked but no one came to open.
By and by a black girl joined me on the steps.
She banged at the door till her fist hurt.

Her name was Alma, a propitious sign.
She knew someone who solved life's riddles
In a voice of an ancient Sumerian queen.
We had a long talk about that
While shivering and stamping our wet feet.

It was necessary to stay calm, I explained,
Even with the earth trembling,
And to continue to watch oneself
As if one were a complete stranger.

Once in Chicago, for instance,
I caught sight of a man in a shaving mirror
Who had my naked shoulders and face,
But whose eyes terrified me!
Two hard staring, all-knowing eyes!

After we parted, the night, the cold, and the endless walking
Brought on a kind of ecstasy.
I went as if pursued, trying to warm myself.

There was the East River; there was the Hudson.
Their waters shone like oil in sanctuary lamps.

Something supreme was occurring
For which there will never be any words.

The sky was full of racing clouds and tall buildings,
Whirling and whirling silently.

In that whole city you could hear a pin drop.
Believe me.
I thought I heard a pin drop and I went looking for it. There was a melon fresh from the garden
So ripe the knife slurped
As it cut it into six slices.
The children were going back to school.
Their mother, passing out paper plates,
Would not live to see the leaves fall.

I remember a hornet, too, that flew in
Through the open window
Mad to taste the sweet fruit
While we ducked and screamed,
Covered our heads and faces,
And sat laughing after it was gone. The night still frightens you.
You know it is interminable
And of vast, unimaginable dimensions.
"That's because His insomnia is permanent,"
You've read some mystic say.
Is it the point of His schoolboy's compass
That pricks your heart?

Somewhere perhaps the lovers lie
Under the dark cypress trees,
Trembling with happiness,
But here there's only your beard of many days
And a night moth shivering
Under your hand pressed against your chest.

Oldest child, Prometheus
Of some cold, cold fire you can't even name
For which you're serving slow time
With that night moth's terror for company. Seems like a long time
Since the waiter took my order.
Grimy little luncheonette,
The snow falling outside.

Seems like it has grown darker
Since I last heard the kitchen door
Behind my back
Since I last noticed
Anyone pass on the street.

A glass of ice-water
Keeps me company
At this table I chose myself
Upon entering.

And a longing,
Incredible longing
To eavesdrop
On the conversation
Of cooks. Executioner happy to explain
How his wristwatch works
As he shadows me on the street.
I call him that because he is grim and officious
And wears black.

The clock on the church tower
Had stopped at five to eleven.
The morning newspapers had no date.
The gray building on the corner
Could've been a state pen,

And then he showed up with his watch,
Whose Gothic numerals
And the absence of hands
He wanted me to understand
Right then and there. Here come my night thoughts
On crutches,
Returning from studying the heavens.
What they thought about
Stayed the same,
Stayed immense and incomprehensible.

My mother and father smile at each other
Knowingly above the mantel.
The cat sleeps on, the dog
Growls in his sleep.
The stove is cold and so is the bed.

Now there are only these crutches
To contend with.
Go ahead and laugh, while I raise one
With difficulty,
Swaying on the front porch,
While pointing at something
In the gray distance.

You see nothing, eh?
Neither do I, Mr. Milkman.
I better hit you once or twice over the head
With this fine old prop,
So you don't go off muttering

I saw something! One day, chasing my tail here and there,
I stopped to catch my breath
On some corner in New York,
While people hurried past me,
All determined to get somewhere,
Save a few adrift like lost children.

What ever became of my youth?
I wanted to stop a stranger and ask.
'It went into hiding,' said an old woman
Who'd read my mind.
'Swimming with sharks,' a drunk concurred,
Fixing me with one bloody eye.

It was summer, and then as quietly as a bird lands,
The sidewalks were dusted with snow
And I was shivering without a coat.
I had hopes we'd meet again, I told myself,
Have a drink and recall the nights
When we used to paint this town red.

I thought you'd be in a straightjacket by now,
You'd say to me,
Making funny faces at doctors and nurses.
Instead, here you are full of fleas,
Dodging cars and buses
To follow a pair of good-looking legs home.

'And you, Judas,' I summed the strength to shout,
'Will you be coming to my funeral?'
But he was gone already. It had gotten late in the day,
Very late—and since there was nothing
That could be done about it—
I thought I'd better toddle along myself. As an ant is powerless 
Against a raised boot, 
And only has an instant 
To have a bright idea or two. 
The black boot so polished, 
He can see himself 
Reflected in it, distorted, 
Perhaps made larger 
Into a huge monster ant 
Shaking his arms and legs 
Threateningly? 

The boot may be hesitating, 
Demurring, having misgivings, 
Gathering cobwebs, 
Dew? 
Yes, and apparently no. The obvious is difficult
To prove. Many prefer
The hidden. I did, too.
I listened to the trees.

They had a secret
Which they were about to
Make known to me--
And then didn't.

Summer came. Each tree
On my street had its own
Scheherazade. My nights
Were a part of their wild

Storytelling. We were
Entering dark houses,
Always more dark houses,
Hushed and abandoned.

There was someone with eyes closed
On the upper floors.
The fear of it, and the wonder,
Kept me sleepless.

The truth is bald and cold,
Said the woman
Who always wore white.
She didn't leave her room.

The sun pointed to one or two
Things that had survived
The long night intact.
The simplest things,

Difficult in their obviousness.
They made no noise.
It was the kind of day
People described as "perfect."

Gods disguising themselves
As black hairpins, a hand-mirror,
A comb with a tooth missing?
No! That wasn't it.

Just things as they are,
Unblinking, lying mute
In that bright light--
And the trees waiting for the night. The brightly-painted horse
Had a boy's face,
And four small wheels
Under his feet,

Plus a long string
To pull him by this way and that
Across the floor,
Should you care to.

A string in-waiting
That slipped away
In many wiles
From each and every try.



2

Knock and they'll answer,
Mother told me.

So I climbed four flights of stairs
And went in unannounced.

And found a small wooden toy
For the taking

In the ensuing emptiness
And the fading daylight

That still gives me a shudder
As if I held the key to mysteries in my hand.



3

Where's the Lost and Found Department,
And the quiet entry,
The undeveloped film
Of the few clear moments
Of our blurred lives?

Where's the drop of blood
And the teeny nail
That pricked my finger
As I bent down to touch the toy

And caught its eye?



4

Evening light,

Make me a Sunday
Go-to meeting shadow
For my toy.

My dearest memories are
Steep stair-wells
In dusty buildings
On dead-end streets,

Where I talk to the walls
And closed doors
As if they understood me.



5

The wooden toy sitting pretty.

No, quieter than that.

Like the sound of eyebrows
Raised by a villain
In a silent movie.

Psst, someone said behind my back.


amaryllis comes in many flavors
snow sometimes slants
when will politics make improvements?

strawberry amaryllis walks right in
snarling at snowfall
saying flowers don’t abuse women

female rabbi demands ancient answers
untranslatable tablets found
there’s more knowledge in flowers

aren’t all rabbis ancient females
snow’s setting in
untranslatable strawberry soufflés, first course

ancient untranslatable second course arrives
edible flowers abound
distant whale sounds sing loudly

singing memories of the future
they thought so
singing, singing, never stopping singing

echo above sea level roads
people ponder protest
extreme weather patterns manifest warnings

swim swam have swum under
and in soufflés
until willows swill scotch seltzers

no tree left behind pleas
a branch fell
right into the money jar

no money have I none
neither do you
so together we’ll be bereft

piles of words mound high
counting moon phases
feathers flew across our minds

consult the feather field guide
mostly about toucans
and birthdays and cookie monsters

we live in the country
they wonder why
the thin place is nearby

it’s a wordy country here
full of vegetables
each word is a pea

lots of potatoes with eyes
carrots without tops
one frozen leek left behind

carrots have eyes too, y’know
you can sit
on a mushroom, never ginger

some folks sit on rocks
large, smooth, flat
and shakers made fine furniture

some rocks start to shake
like a quaker
I’ve never dated a dentist

dating a dentist really bites
tooth-growing oysters
what a very weird universe

s is a yellow letter
in my synesthesia
I mean my synesthesia scheme

can you hear sunrays?
see trumpet calls?
taste the shape of words?

if you spell synesthesia with
an a (synaesthesia) everything
changes because a is red

synesthetes come in many colors
snow sometimes slants
when will untranslatable make improvements?

if you stick with me
what everything does
will be the backwards opposite

improvements make untranslatable demand flowers
hear, see, taste
everything will make sense again

you’ve got another thing coming
I see people
nothing will ever make sense

nonsense to making sense again
the mysterious mind
memories within time plus space

do you know the future
will be there?
time might go backwards, sir

if only pleasure were limitless
beyond the mind
a tiny speck of sand

if only you knew how
limitless pleasures can
be like little engine dresses

yes the small pleasures roar
like mighty engines
here sometimes they are jets

you mean nuclear jet engines
like the speedway’s
oh save us and the trees

more trees will save us
air moves through
we hear maple sap drop

trees taught us to breathe
sap rises up
we see windy voices say

nothing is really real tonight
the wind laughs
oysters jump on our plates
Olive seashells
in the air

you can eat.
The very inner of the inner ear

in the breeze.
Last night my son dreamt

about falling
out of trees.

I had almost forgotten
that we were

simians.

The fiddlehead turns
on itself but only ever in love.

Green cinnamon roll,
a snake too small to hunt

anyone.
Curled in like my son’s
fingers, his fists.

More beautiful than
a spider fern,

spun-in island,
moldy tongue of a hippopotamus,

the eye of the forest.

When my son wakes up
screaming

I don’t pick him up
right away.

I tell him where he is and who
I am.

At night all the fiddlehead
wants to do is sleep.

When I sleep
I dream about death adders curling

around his soft
body,

all of us making the same kinds of sounds.
I saw another ladybug
Chicago could win
if  I eat the leftover fish & chips
in every line so I don’t forget
We went to the river called fish & chips
We stayed at the fish & chips tower
They donated a million dollars to the fish & chips foundation
so we could go to school for free
It’s called fish & chips college for women
the pope has his cardinals
batman has his robins
shakespeare has a lark
in just one of his sonnets
One look at the lilac, one smell
and my childhood is — 

dogs scratching at the sliding
glass door, bits

of bottles coming up

like grass in the grass, a dirty towel
down by the feet

of the tree, Lysol cans, small
packets of Land O’Frost

turkey meat — 
there in front of me in spring,

in the wonderfully fat rain,

flowering purple and whatever
the pinkish purple is called

and the white

ones too. They smell like
my siblings, like the backs of my infant

son’s ears, like my son
whom I would kill someone for.

Before he was born I wouldn’t kill
anyone. But now I would.

And after I’d get a coffee
from Starbucks, a coffee and a piece

of that amazing lemon-frosted
lemon cake

and think nothing of it,

and read the paper and hold him
against my chest

and listen to his body living,
alive outside

his mother’s body, and the lilac
outside on the street, outside

everyone, and heavy in the rain.
Halfway up from the little harbor of sardine boats,
Halfway down from groves where the thin, bitter almond pips
Fatten in green-pocked pods, the three net-menders sit out,
Dressed in black, everybody in mourning for someone.
They set their stout chairs back to the road and face the dark
Dominoes of their doorways.

Sun grains their crow-colors,
Purples the fig in the leaf's shadow, turns the dust pink.
On the road named for Tomas Ortunio, mica
Winks like money under the ringed toes of the chickens.
The houses are white as sea-salt goats lick from the rocks.

While their fingers work with the coarse mesh and the fine
Their eyes revolve the whole town like a blue and green ball.
Nobody dies or is born without their knowing it.
They talk of bride-lace, of lovers spunky as gamecocks.

The moon leans, a stone madonna, over the lead sea
And the iron hills that enclose them. Earthen fingers
Twist old words into the web-threads:

Tonight may the fish
Be a harvest of silver in the nets, and the lamps
Of our husbands and sons move sure among the low stars. 
When night comes black
Such royal dreams beckon this man
As lift him apart
From his earth-wife's side
To wing, sleep-feathered,
The singular air,
While she, envious bride,
Cannot follow after, but lies
With her blank brown eyes starved wide,
Twisting curses in the tangled sheet
With taloned fingers,
Shaking in her skull's cage
The stuffed shape of her flown mate
Escaped among moon-plumaged strangers;
So hungered, she must wait in rage
Until bird-racketing dawn
When her shrike-face
Leans to peck open those locked lids, to eat
Crowns, palace, all
That nightlong stole her male,
And with red beak
Spike and suck out
Last blood-drop of that truant heart. 
I've got a stubborn goose whose gut's
Honeycombed with golden eggs,
Yet won't lay one.
She, addled in her goose-wit, struts
The barnyard like those taloned hags
Who ogle men

And crimp their wrinkles in a grin,
Jangling their great money bags.
While I eat grits
She fattens on the finest grain.
Now, as I hone my knife, she begs
Pardon, and that's

So humbly done, I'd turn this keen
Steel on myself before profit
By such a rogue's
Act, but —- How those feathers shine!

Exit from a smoking slit
Her ruby dregs. 
My love for you is more
athletic than a verb,
Agile as a star
The tents of sun absorb.

Treading circus tight ropes
Of each syllable,
The brazen jackanapes
Would fracture if he fell.

Acrobat of space
The daring adjective
Plunges for a phrase
Describing arcs of love.

Nimble as a noun,
He catabpults in air;
A planetary swoon
Could climax his career.

But adroit conjunction
Eloquently shall
Link to his lyric action
A periodic goal. 
Sing praise for statuary:
For those anchored attitudes
And staunch stone eyes that stare
Through lichen-lid and passing bird-foot
At some steadfast mark
Beyond the inconstant green
Gallop and flick of light
In this precarious park

Where vivid children twirl
Like colored tops through time
Nor stop to understand
How all their play is touch-and-go:
But, Go! they cry, and the swing
Arcs up to the tall tree tip;
Go! and the merry-go-round
Hauls them round with it.

And I, like the children, caught
In the mortal active verb,
Let my transient eye break a tear
For each quick, flaring game
Of child, leaf and cloud,
While on this same fugue, unmoved,
Those stonier eyes look,
Safe-socketed in rock. 
From fabrication springs the spiral stair
up which the wakeful princess climbs to find
the source of blanching light that conjured her

to leave her bed of fever and ascend
a visionary ladder toward the moon
whose holy blue anoints her injured hand.

With finger bandaged where the waspish pin
flew from the intricate embroidery
and stung according to the witch's plan,

she mounts through malice of the needle's eye,
trailing her scrupulously simple gown
along bright asterisks by milky way.

Colonnades of angels nod her in
where ancient, infinite, and beautiful,
her legendary godmother leans down,

spinning a single stubborn thread of wool
which all the artful wizards cannot crimp
to keep the young girl from her crowning goal.

Initiated by the lunar lamp,
kindling her within a steepled flame,
the princess hears the thunder and the pomp

of squadrons underground abducting him
who is the destination of the cord
now bound around her wrist till she redeem
this miner's boy from goblin bodyguard.


Guided only by the tug and twitch
of that mercurial strand, the girl goes down
the darkening stair, undoes the palace latch

and slips unseen past watchmen on the lawn
dozing around their silvered sentry box.
Across the frosted grass she marks the sheen

of thread conducting her to the worn tracks
made by miners up the mountainside
among the jagged mazes of the rocks.

Laboring on the tilt of that steep grade
behind which the declining moon has set,
she recalls queer stories her nurse read

about a goblin raid on miner's hut
because new excavations came too near
the chambers where their fiendish queen would sit.

Hearing a weird cackle from afar,
she clutches at the talismanic cord
and confronts a cairn of iron ore.

Suddenly a brazen song is heard
from the pragmatic boy confined within,
gaily cursing the whole goblin horde.

Inviolate in the circle of that skein,
looping like faith about her bleeding feet,
the princess frees the miner, stone by stone,
and leads him home to be her chosen knight.


The princess coaxes the incredulous boy
through candid kitchens in the rising sun
to seek the staircase by the glare of day.

Hand in hand, they scale meridian,
clambering up the creaking heights of heat
until she hears the twittering machine

which quaintly wove the fabric of her fate
behind the zodiac on attic door
with abracadabra from the alphabet.

Pointing toward the spindle's cryptic whir,
she tells the greenhorn miner to bow down
and honor the great goddess of the air

suspended aloft within her planet-shine.
Laughing aloud, the dazzled boy demands
why he should kneel before a silly scene

where pigeons promenade the gable-ends
and coo quadrilles about the blighted core
in a batch of raveled apple rinds.

At his words, the indignant godmother
vanishes in a labyrinth of hay
while sunlight winds its yarn upon the floor.

O never again will the extravagant straw
knit up a gilded fable for the child
who weeps before the desolate tableau
of clockwork that makes the royal blood run cold. 
I am sending back the key
that let me into bluebeard's study;
because he would make love to me
I am sending back the key;
in his eye's darkroom I can see
my X-rayed heart, dissected body :
I am sending back the key
that let me into bluebeard's study. 
No map traces the street
Where those two sleepers are.
We have lost track of it.
They lie as if under water
In a blue, unchanging light,
The French window ajar

Curtained with yellow lace.
Through the narrow crack
Odors of wet earth rise.
The snail leaves a silver track;
Dark thickets hedge the house.
We take a backward look.

Among petals pale as death
And leaves steadfast in shape
They sleep on, mouth to mouth.
A white mist is going up.
The small green nostrils breathe,
And they turn in their sleep.

Ousted from that warm bed
We are a dream they dream.
Their eyelids keep up the shade.
No harm can come to them.
We cast our skins and slide
Into another time. 
Stalemated their armies stood, with tottering banners:
She flung from a room
Still ringing with bruit of insults and dishonors

And in fury left him
Glowering at the coal-fire: ‘Come find me'—her last taunt.
He did not come

But sat on, guarding his grim battlement.
By the doorstep
Her winter-beheaded daisies, marrowless, gaunt,

Warned her to keep
Indoors with politic goodwill, not haste
Into a landscape

Of stark wind-harrowed hills and weltering mist;
But from the house
She stalked intractable as a driven ghost

Across moor snows
Pocked by rock-claw and rabbit-track: she must yet win
Him to his knees—

Let him send police and hounds to bring her in.
Nursing her rage
Through bare whistling heather, over stiles of black stone,

To the world's white edge
She came, and called hell to subdue an unruly man
And join her siege.

It was no fire-blurting fork-tailed demon
Volcanoed hot
From marble snow-heap of moor to ride that woman

With spur and knout
Down from pride's size: instead, a grisly-thewed,
Austere, corpse-white

Giant heaved into the distance, stone-hatcheted,
Sky-high, and snow
Floured his whirling beard, and at his tread

Ambushed birds by
Dozens dropped dead in the hedges: o she felt
No love in his eye,

Worse—saw dangling from that spike-studded belt
Ladies' sheaved skulls:
Mournfully the dry tongues clacked their guilt:

‘Our wit made fools
Of kings, unmanned kings' sons: our masteries
Amused court halls:

For that brag, we barnacle these iron thighs.'
Throned in the thick
Of a blizzard, the giant roared up with his chittering trophies.

From brunt of axe-crack
She shied sideways: a white fizz! and the giant, pursuing,
Crumbled to smoke.

Humbled then, and crying,
The girl bent homeward, brimful of gentle talk
And mild obeying. 
This is the city where men are mended.
I lie on a great anvil.
The flat blue sky-circle

Flew off like the hat of a doll
When I fell out of the light. I entered
The stomach of indifference, the wordless cupboard.

The mother of pestles diminished me.
I became a still pebble.
The stones of the belly were peaceable,

The head-stone quiet, jostled by nothing.
Only the mouth-hole piped out,
Importunate cricket

In a quarry of silences.
The people of the city heard it.
They hunted the stones, taciturn and separate,

The mouth-hole crying their locations.
Drunk as a foetus
I suck at the paps of darkness.

The food tubes embrace me. Sponges kiss my lichens away.
The jewelmaster drives his chisel to pry
Open one stone eye.

This is the after-hell: I see the light.
A wind unstoppers the chamber
Of the ear, old worrier.

Water mollifies the flint lip,
And daylight lays its sameness on the wall.
The grafters are cheerful,

Heating the pincers, hoisting the delicate hammers.
A current agitates the wires
Volt upon volt. Catgut stitches my fissures.

A workman walks by carrying a pink torso.
The storerooms are full of hearts.
This is the city of spare parts.

My swaddled legs and arms smell sweet as rubber.
Here they can doctor heads, or any limb.
On Fridays the little children come

To trade their hooks for hands.
Dead men leave eyes for others.
Love is the uniform of my bald nurse.

Love is the bone and sinew of my curse.
The vase, reconstructed, houses
The elusive rose.

Ten fingers shape a bowl for shadows.
My mendings itch. There is nothing to do.
I shall be good as new. 
The white light is artificial, and hygienic as heaven.
The microbes cannot survive it.
They are departing in their transparent garments, turned aside
From the scalpels and the rubber hands.
The scalded sheet is a snowfield, frozen and peaceful.
The body under it is in my hands.
As usual there is no face. A lump of Chinese white
With seven holes thumbed in. The soul is another light.
I have not seen it; it does not fly up.
Tonight it has receded like a ship's light.

It is a garden I have to do with —- tubers and fruit
Oozing their jammy substances,
A mat of roots. My assistants hook them back.
Stenches and colors assail me.
This is the lung-tree.
These orchids are splendid. They spot and coil like snakes.
The heart is a red bell-bloom, in distress.
I am so small
In comparison to these organs!
I worm and hack in a purple wilderness.

The blood is a sunset. I admire it.
I am up to my elbows in it, red and squeaking.
Still is seeps me up, it is not exhausted.
So magical! A hot spring
I must seal off and let fill
The intricate, blue piping under this pale marble.
How I admire the Romans —-
Aqeducts, the Baths of Caracella, the eagle nose!
The body is a Roman thing.
It has shut its mouth on the stone pill of repose.

It is a statue the orderlies are wheeling off.
I have perfected it.
I am left with and arm or a leg,
A set of teeth, or stones
To rattle in a bottle and take home,
And tissues in slices—a pathological salami.
Tonight the parts are entombed in an icebox.
Tomorrow they will swim
In vinegar like saints' relics.
Tomorrow the patient will have a clean, pink plastic limb.

Over one bed in the ward, a small blue light
Announces a new soul. The bed is blue.
Tonight, for this person, blue is a beautiful color.
The angels of morphia have borne him up.
He floats an inch from the ceiling,
Smelling the dawn drafts.
I walk among sleepers in gauze sarcophagi.
The red night lights are flat moons. They are dull with blood.
I am the sun, in my white coat,
Grey faces, shuttered by drugs, follow me like flowers. 
Unlucky the hero born
In this province of the stuck record
Where the most watchful cooks go jobless
And the mayor's rôtisserie turns
Round of its own accord.

There's no career in the venture
Of riding against the lizard,
Himself withered these latter-days
To leaf-size from lack of action:
History's beaten the hazard.

The last crone got burnt up
More than eight decades back
With the love-hot herb, the talking cat,
But the children are better for it,
The cow milks cream an inch thick. 
O maiden aunt, you have come to call.
Do step into the hall!
With your bold
Gecko, the little flick!
All cogs, weird sparkle and every cog solid gold.
And I in slippers and housedress with no lipstick!

And you want to be shown about!
Yes, yes, this is my address.
Not a patch on your place, I guess, with the Javanese
Geese and the monkey trees.
It's a bit burnt-out,
A bit of a wild machine, a bit of a mess!

O I shouldn't put my finger in that
Auntie, it might bite!
That's my frost box, no cat,
Though it looks like a cat, with its fluffy stuff, pure white.
You should see the objects it makes!
Millions of needly glass cakes!

Fine for the migraine or the bellyache. And this
Is where I kept the furnace,
Each coal a hot cross-stitch—a lovely light!
It simply exploded one night,
It went up in smoke.
And that's why I have no hair, auntie, that's why I choke

Off and on, as if I just had to retch.
Coal gas is ghastly stuff.
Here's a spot I thought you'd love—
Morning Glory Pool!
The blue's a jewel.
It boils for forty hours at a stretch.

O I shouldn't dip my hankie in, it hurts!
Last summer, my God, last summer
It ate seven maids and a plumber
And returned them steamed and pressed and stiff as shirts.
I am bitter? I'm averse?
Here's your specs, dear, here's your purse.

Toddle on home to tea now in your flat hat.
It'll be lemon tea for me,
Lemon tea and earwig biscuits—creepy-creepy.
You'd not want that.
Toddle on home, before the weather's worse.
Toddle on home, and don't trip on the nurse!—

She may be bald, she may have no eyes,
But auntie, she's awfully nice.
She's pink, she's a born midwife—
She can bring the dead to life
With her wiggly fingers and for a very small fee.
Well I hope you've enjoyed it, auntie!

Toddle on home to tea! 
The ordinary milkman brought that dawn
Of destiny, delivered to the door
In square hermetic bottles, while the sun
Ruled decree of doomsday on the floor.

The morning paper clocked the headline hour
You drank your coffee lke original sin,
And at the jet-plane anger of God's roar
Got up to let the suave blue policeman in.

Impaled upon a stern angelic stare
You were condemned to serve the legal limit
And burn to death within your neon hell.

Now, disciplined in the strict ancestral chair,
You sit, solemn-eyed, about to vomit,
The future an electrode in your skull. 
Cold on my narrow cot I lie
and in sorrow look
through my window-square of black:

figured in the midnight sky,
a mosaic of stars
diagrams the falling years,

while from the moon, my lover's eye
chills me to death
with radiance of his frozen faith.

Once I wounded him with so
small a thorn
I never thought his flesh would burn

or that the heat within would grow
until he stood
incandescent as a god;

now there is nowhere I can go
to hide from him:
moon and sun reflect his flame.

In the morning all shall be
the same again:
stars pale before the angry dawn;

the gilded cock will turn for me
the rack of time
until the peak of noon has come

and by that glare, my love will see
how I am still
blazing in my golden hell. 
Clocks cry: stillness is a lie, my dear;
The wheels revolve, the universe keeps running.
(Proud you halt upon the spiral stair.)

The asteroids turn traitor in the air,
And planets plot with old elliptic cunning;
Clocks cry: stillness is a lie, my dear.

Red the unraveled rose sings in your hair:
Blood springs eternal if the heart be burning.
(Proud you halt upon the spiral stair.)

Cryptic stars wind up the atmosphere,
In solar schemes the titled suns go turning;
Clocks cry: stillness is a lie, my dear.

Loud the immortal nightingales declare:
Love flames forever if the flesh be yearning.
(Proud you halt upon the spiral stair.)

Circling zodiac compels the year.
Intolerant beauty never will be learning.
Clocks cry: stillness is a lie, my dear.
(Proud you halt upon the spiral stair.) 
'If my head hurt a hair's foot
Pack back the downed bone. If the unpricked ball of my breath
Bump on a spout let the bubbles jump out.
Sooner drop with the worm of the ropes round my throat
Than bully ill love in the clouted scene.

'All game phrases fit your ring of a cockfight:
I'll comb the snared woods with a glove on a lamp,
Peck, sprint, dance on fountains and duck time
Before I rush in a crouch the ghost with a hammer, air,
Strike light, and bloody a loud room.

'If my bunched, monkey coming is cruel
Rage me back to the making house. My hand unravel
When you sew the deep door. The bed is a cross place.
Bend, if my journey ache, direction like an arc or make
A limp and riderless shape to leap nine thinning months.'

'No. Not for Christ's dazzling bed
Or a nacreous sleep among soft particles and charms
My dear would I change my tears or your iron head.
Thrust, my daughter or son, to escape, there is none, none, none,
Nor when all ponderous heaven's host of waters breaks.

'Now to awake husked of gestures and my joy like a cave
To the anguish and carrion, to the infant forever unfree,
O my lost love bounced from a good home;
The grain that hurries this way from the rim of the grave
Has a voice and a house, and there and here you must couch and cry.

'Rest beyond choice in the dust-appointed grain,
At the breast stored with seas. No return
Through the waves of the fat streets nor the skeleton's thin ways.
The grave and my calm body are shut to your coming as stone,
And the endless beginning of prodigies suffers open.' Never and never, my girl riding far and near
In the land of the hearthstone tales, and spelled asleep,
Fear or believe that the wolf in a sheepwhite hood
Loping and bleating roughly and blithely shall leap,
My dear, my dear,
Out of a lair in the flocked leaves in the dew dipped year
To eat your heart in the house in the rosy wood.

Sleep, good, for ever, slow and deep, spelled rare and wise,
My girl ranging the night in the rose and shire
Of the hobnail tales: no gooseherd or swine will turn
Into a homestall king or hamlet of fire
And prince of ice
To court the honeyed heart from your side before sunrise
In a spinney of ringed boys and ganders, spike and burn,

Nor the innocent lie in the rooting dingle wooed
And staved, and riven among plumes my rider weep.
From the broomed witch's spume you are shielded by fern
And flower of country sleep and the greenwood keep.
Lie fast and soothed,
Safe be and smooth from the bellows of the rushy brood.
Never, my girl, until tolled to sleep by the stern

Bell believe or fear that the rustic shade or spell
Shall harrow and snow the blood while you ride wide and near,
For who unmanningly haunts the mountain ravened eaves
Or skulks in the dell moon but moonshine echoing clear
From the starred well?
A hill touches an angel. Out of a saint's cell
The nightbird lauds through nunneries and domes of leaves

Her robin breasted tree, three Marys in the rays.
_Sanctum sanctorum_ the animal eye of the wood
In the rain telling its beads, and the gravest ghost
The owl at its knelling. Fox and holt kneel before blood.
Now the tales praise
The star rise at pasture and nightlong the fables graze
On the lord's-table of the bowing grass. Fear most

For ever of all not the wolf in his baaing hood
Nor the tusked prince, in the ruttish farm, at the rind
And mire of love, but the Thief as meek as the dew.
The country is holy: O bide in that country kind,
Know the green good,
Under the prayer wheeling moon in the rosy wood
Be shielded by chant and flower and gay may you

Lie in grace. Sleep spelled at rest in the lowly house
In the squirrel nimble grove, under linen and thatch
And star: held and blessed, though you scour the high four
Winds, from the dousing shade and the roarer at the latch,
Cool in your vows.
Yet out of the beaked, web dark and the pouncing boughs
Be you sure the Thief will seek a way sly and sure

And sly as snow and meek as dew blown to the thorn,
This night and each vast night until the stern bell talks
In the tower and tolls to sleep over the stalls
Of the hearthstone tales my own, lost love; and the soul walks
The waters shorn.
This night and each night since the falling star you were born,
Ever and ever he finds a way, as the snow falls,

As the rain falls, hail on the fleece, as the vale mist rides
Through the haygold stalls, as the dew falls on the wind-
Milled dust of the apple tree and the pounded islands
Of the morning leaves, as the star falls, as the winged
Apple seed glides,
And falls, and flowers in the yawning wound at our sides,
As the world falls, silent as the cyclone of silence.


II

Night and the reindeer on the clouds above the haycocks
And the wings of the great roc ribboned for the fair!
The leaping saga of prayer! And high, there, on the hare-
Heeled winds the rooks
Cawing from their black bethels soaring, the holy books
Of birds! Among the cocks like fire the red fox

Burning! Night and the vein of birds in the winged, sloe wrist
Of the wood! Pastoral beat of blood through the laced leaves!
The stream from the priest black wristed spinney and sleeves
Of thistling frost
Of the nightingale's din and tale! The upgiven ghost
Of the dingle torn to singing and the surpliced

Hill of cypresses! The din and tale in the skimmed
Yard of the buttermilk rain on the pail! The sermon
Of blood! The bird loud vein! The saga from mermen
To seraphim
Leaping! The gospel rooks! All tell, this night, of him
Who comes as red as the fox and sly as the heeled wind.

Illumination of music! the lulled black-backed
Gull, on the wave with sand in its eyes! And the foal moves
Through the shaken greensward lake, silent, on moonshod hooves,
In the winds' wakes.
Music of elements, that a miracle makes!
Earth, air, water, fire, singing into the white act,

The haygold haired, my love asleep, and the rift blue
Eyed, in the haloed house, in her rareness and hilly
High riding, held and blessed and true, and so stilly
Lying the sky
Might cross its planets, the bell weep, night gather her eyes,
The Thief fall on the dead like the willy nilly dew,

Only for the turning of the earth in her holy
Heart! Slyly, slowly, hearing the wound in her side go
Round the sun, he comes to my love like the designed snow,
And truly he
Flows to the strand of flowers like the dew's ruly sea,
And surely he sails like the ship shape clouds. Oh he

Comes designed to my love to steal not her tide raking
Wound, nor her riding high, nor her eyes, nor kindled hair,
But her faith that each vast night and the saga of prayer
He comes to take
Her faith that this last night for his unsacred sake
He comes to leave her in the lawless sun awaking

Naked and forsaken to grieve he will not come.
Ever and ever by all your vows believe and fear
My dear this night he comes and night without end my dear
Since you were born:
And you shall wake, from country sleep, this dawn and each first dawn,
Your faith as deathless as the outcry of the ruled sun. In my craft or sullen art
Exercised in the still night
When only the moon rages
And the lovers lie abed
With all their griefs in their arms
I labour by singing light
Not for ambition or bread
Or the strut and trade of charms
On the ivory stages
But for the common wages
Of their most secret heart. 

Not for the proud man apart
From the raging moon I write
On these spindrift pages
Nor for the towering dead
With their nightingales and psalms
But for the lovers, their arms
Round the griefs of the ages,
Who pay no praise or wages
Nor heed my craft or art In the beginning was the three-pointed star,
One smile of light across the empty face,
One bough of bone across the rooting air,
The substance forked that marrowed the first sun,
And, burning ciphers on the round of space,
Heaven and hell mixed as they spun.

In the beginning was the pale signature,
Three-syllabled and starry as the smile,
And after came the imprints on the water,
Stamp of the minted face upon the moon;
The blood that touched the crosstree and the grail
Touched the first cloud and left a sign.

In the beginning was the mounting fire
That set alight the weathers from a spark,
A three-eyed, red-eyed spark, blunt as a flower,
Life rose and spouted from the rolling seas,
Burst in the roots, pumped from the earth and rock
The secret oils that drive the grass.

In the beginning was the word, the word
That from the solid bases of the light
Abstracted all the letters of the void;
And from the cloudy bases of the breath
The word flowed up, translating to the heart
First characters of birth and death.

In the beginning was the secret brain.
The brain was celled and soldered in the thought
Before the pitch was forking to a sun;
Before the veins were shaking in their sieve,
Blood shot and scattered to the winds of light
The ribbed original of love. Through throats where many rivers meet, the curlews cry,
Under the conceiving moon, on the high chalk hill,
And there this night I walk in the white giant's thigh
Where barren as boulders women lie longing still

To labour and love though they lay down long ago.

Through throats where many many rivers meet, the women pray,
Pleading in the waded bay for the seed to flow
Though the names on their weed grown stones are rained away,

And alone in the night's eternal, curving act
They yearn with tongues of curlews for the unconceived
And immemorial sons of the cudgelling, hacked

Hill. Who once in gooseskin winter loved all ice leaved
In the courters' lanes, or twined in the ox roasting sun
In the wains tonned so high that the wisps of the hay
Clung to the pitching clouds, or gay with any one
Young as they in the after milking moonlight lay

Under the lighted shapes of faith and their moonshade
Petticoats galed high, or shy with the rough riding boys,
Now clasp me to their grains in the gigantic glade,

Who once, green countries since, were a hedgerow of joys.

Time by, their dust was flesh the swineherd rooted sly,
Flared in the reek of the wiving sty with the rush
Light of his thighs, spreadeagle to the dunghill sky,
Or with their orchard man in the core of the sun's bush
Rough as cows' tongues and thrashed with brambles their buttermilk
Manes, under the quenchless summer barbed gold to the bone,

Or rippling soft in the spinney moon as the silk
And ducked and draked white lake that harps to a hail stone.

Who once were a bloom of wayside brides in the hawed house
And heard the lewd, wooed field flow to the coming frost,
The scurrying, furred small friars squeal, in the dowse
Of day, in the thistle aisles, till the white owl crossed

Their breast, the vaulting does roister, the horned bucks climb
Quick in the wood at love, where a torch of foxes foams,
All birds and beasts of the linked night uproar and chime

And the mole snout blunt under his pilgrimage of domes,
Or, butter fat goosegirls, bounced in a gambo bed,
Their breasts full of honey, under their gander king
Trounced by his wings in the hissing shippen, long dead
And gone that barley dark where their clogs danced in the spring,
And their firefly hairpins flew, and the ricks ran round--

(But nothing bore, no mouthing babe to the veined hives
Hugged, and barren and bare on Mother Goose's ground
They with the simple Jacks were a boulder of wives)--

Now curlew cry me down to kiss the mouths of their dust.

The dust of their kettles and clocks swings to and fro
Where the hay rides now or the bracken kitchens rust
As the arc of the billhooks that flashed the hedges low
And cut the birds' boughs that the minstrel sap ran red.
They from houses where the harvest kneels, hold me hard,
Who heard the tall bell sail down the Sundays of the dead
And the rain wring out its tongues on the faded yard,
Teach me the love that is evergreen after the fall leaved
Grave, after Belovéd on the grass gulfed cross is scrubbed
Off by the sun and Daughters no longer grieved
Save by their long desires in the fox cubbed
Streets or hungering in the crumbled wood: to these
Hale dead and deathless do the women of the hill
Love for ever meridian through the courters' trees

And the daughters of darkness flame like Fawkes fires still. Incarnate devil in a talking snake,
The central plains of Asia in his garden,
In shaping-time the circle stung awake,
In shapes of sin forked out the bearded apple,
And God walked there who was a fiddling warden
And played down pardon from the heavens' hill.

When we were strangers to the guided seas,
A handmade moon half holy in a cloud,
The wisemen tell me that the garden gods
Twined good and evil on an eastern tree;
And when the moon rose windily it was
Black as the beast and paler than the cross.

We in our Eden knew the secret guardian
In sacred waters that no frost could harden,
And in the mighty mornings of the earth;
Hell in a horn of sulphur and the cloven myth,
All heaven in the midnight of the sun,
A serpent fiddled in the shaping-time. 
Into her lying down head
His enemies entered bed,
Under the encumbered eyelid,
Through the rippled drum of the hair-buried ear;
And Noah's rekindled now unkind dove
Flew man-bearing there.
Last night in a raping wave
Whales unreined from the green grave
In fountains of origin gave up their love,
Along her innocence glided
Jaun aflame and savagely young King Lear,
Queen Catherine howling bare
And Samson drowned in his hair,
The colossal intimacies of silent
Once seen strangers or shades on a stair;
There the dark blade and wanton sighing her down
To a haycock couch and the scythes of his arms
Rode and whistled a hundred times
Before the crowing morning climbed;
Man was the burning England she was sleep-walking, and the enamouring island
Made her limbs blind by luminous charms,
Sleep to a newborn sleep in a swaddling loin-leaf stroked and sang
And his runaway beloved childlike laid in the acorned sand.


II

There where a numberless tongue
Wound their room with a male moan,
His faith around her flew undone
And darkness hung the walls with baskets of snakes,
A furnace-nostrilled column-membered
Super-or-near man
Resembling to her dulled sense
The thief of adolescence,
Early imaginary half remembered
Oceanic lover alone
Jealousy cannot forget for all her sakes,
Made his bad bed in her good
Night, and enjoyed as he would.
Crying, white gowned, from the middle moonlit stages
Out to the tiered and hearing tide,
Close and far she announced the theft of the heart
In the taken body at many ages,
Trespasser and broken bride
Celebrating at her side
All blood-signed assailing and vanished marriages in which he had no lovely part
Nor could share, for his pride, to the least
Mutter and foul wingbeat of the solemnizing nightpriest
Her holy unholy hours with the always anonymous beast.


III

Two sand grains together in bed,
Head to heaven-circling head,
Singly lie with the whole wide shore,
The covering sea their nightfall with no names;
And out of every domed and soil-based shell
One voice in chains declaims
The female, deadly, and male
Libidinous betrayal,
Golden dissolving under the water veil.
A she bird sleeping brittle by
Her lover's wings that fold to-morrow's flight,
Within the nested treefork
Sings to the treading hawk
Carrion, paradise, chirrup my bright yolk.
A blade of grass longs with the meadow,
A stone lies lost and locked in the lark-high hill.
Open as to the air to the naked shadow
O she lies alone and still,
Innocent between two wars,
With the incestuous secret brother in the seconds to perpetuate the stars,
A man torn up mourns in the sole night.
And the second comers, the severers, the enemies from the deep
Forgotten dark, rest their pulse and bury their dead in her faithless sleep. It is the sinners' dust-tongued bell claps me to churches
When, with his torch and hourglass, like a sulpher priest,
His beast heel cleft in a sandal,
Time marks a black aisle kindle from the brand of ashes,
Grief with dishevelled hands tear out the altar ghost
And a firewind kill the candle.

Over the choir minute I hear the hour chant:
Time's coral saint and the salt grief drown a foul sepulchre
And a whirlpool drives the prayerwheel;
Moonfall and sailing emperor, pale as their tide-print,
Hear by death's accident the clocked and dashed-down spire
Strike the sea hour through bellmetal.

There is loud and dark directly under the dumb flame,
Storm, snow, and fountain in the weather of fireworks,
Cathedral calm in the pulled house;
Grief with drenched book and candle christens the cherub time
From the emerald, still bell; and from the pacing weather-cock
The voice of bird on coral prays.

Forever it is a white child in the dark-skinned summer
Out of the font of bone and plants at that stone tocsin
Scales the blue wall of spirits;
From blank and leaking winter sails the child in colour,
Shakes, in crabbed burial shawl, by sorcerer's insect woken,
Ding dong from the mute turrets.

I mean by time the cast and curfew rascal of our marriage,
At nightbreak born in the fat side, from an animal bed
In a holy room in a wave;
And all love's sinners in sweet cloth kneel to a hyleg image,
Nutmeg, civet, and sea-parsley serve the plagued groom and bride
Who have brought forth the urchin grief. Because the pleasure-bird whistles after the hot wires,
Shall the blind horse sing sweeter?
Convenient bird and beast lie lodged to suffer
The supper and knives of a mood.
In the sniffed and poured snow on the tip of the tongue of the year
That clouts the spittle like bubbles with broken rooms,
An enamoured man alone by the twigs of his eyes, two fires,
Camped in the drug-white shower of nerves and food,
Savours the lick of the times through a deadly wood of hair
In a wind that plucked a goose,
Nor ever, as the wild tongue breaks its tombs,
Rounds to look at the red, wagged root.
Because there stands, one story out of the bum city,
That frozen wife whose juices drift like a fixed sea
Secretly in statuary,
Shall I, struck on the hot and rocking street,
Not spin to stare at an old year
Toppling and burning in the muddle of towers and galleries
Like the mauled pictures of boys?
The salt person and blasted place
I furnish with the meat of a fable.
If the dead starve, their stomachs turn to tumble
An upright man in the antipodes
Or spray-based and rock-chested sea:
Over the past table I repeat this present grace. When I was a windy boy and a bit
And the black spit of the chapel fold,
(Sighed the old ram rod, dying of women),
I tiptoed shy in the gooseberry wood,
The rude owl cried like a tell-tale tit,
I skipped in a blush as the big girls rolled
Nine-pin down on donkey's common,
And on seesaw sunday nights I wooed
Whoever I would with my wicked eyes,
The whole of the moon I could love and leave
All the green leaved little weddings' wives
In the coal black bush and let them grieve.

When I was a gusty man and a half
And the black beast of the beetles' pews
(Sighed the old ram rod, dying of bitches),
Not a boy and a bit in the wick-
Dipping moon and drunk as a new dropped calf,
I whistled all night in the twisted flues,
Midwives grew in the midnight ditches,
And the sizzling sheets of the town cried, Quick!-
Whenever I dove in a breast high shoal,
Wherever I ramped in the clover quilts,
Whatsoever I did in the coal-
Black night, I left my quivering prints.

When I was a man you could call a man
And the black cross of the holy house,
(Sighed the old ram rod, dying of welcome),
Brandy and ripe in my bright, bass prime,
No springtailed tom in the red hot town
With every simmering woman his mouse
But a hillocky bull in the swelter
Of summer come in his great good time
To the sultry, biding herds, I said,
Oh, time enough when the blood runs cold,
And I lie down but to sleep in bed,
For my sulking, skulking, coal black soul!

When I was half the man I was
And serve me right as the preachers warn,
(Sighed the old ram rod, dying of downfall),
No flailing calf or cat in a flame
Or hickory bull in milky grass
But a black sheep with a crumpled horn,
At last the soul from its foul mousehole
Slunk pouting out when the limp time came;
And I gave my soul a blind, slashed eye,
Gristle and rind, and a roarers' life,
And I shoved it into the coal black sky
To find a woman's soul for a wife.

Now I am a man no more no more
And a black reward for a roaring life,
(Sighed the old ram rod, dying of strangers),
Tidy and cursed in my dove cooed room
I lie down thin and hear the good bells jaw--
For, oh, my soul found a sunday wife
In the coal black sky and she bore angels!
Harpies around me out of her womb!
Chastity prays for me, piety sings,
Innocence sweetens my last black breath,
Modesty hides my thighs in her wings,
And all the deadly virtues plague my death! Lie still, sleep becalmed, sufferer with the wound
In the throat, burning and turning. All night afloat
On the silent sea we have heard the sound
That came from the wound wrapped in the salt sheet.

Under the mile off moon we trembled listening
To the sea sound flowing like blood from the loud wound
And when the salt sheet broke in a storm of singing
The voices of all the drowned swam on the wind.

Open a pathway through the slow sad sail,
Throw wide to the wind the gates of the wandering boat
For my voyage to begin to the end of my wound,
We heard the sea sound sing, we saw the salt sheet tell.
Lie still, sleep becalmed, hide the mouth in the throat,
Or we shall obey, and ride with you through the drowned. Light breaks where no sun shines;
Where no sea runs, the waters of the heart
Push in their tides;
And, broken ghosts with glowworms in their heads,
The things of light
File through the flesh where no flesh decks the bones.

A candle in the thighs
Warms youth and seed and burns the seeds of age;
Where no seed stirs,
The fruit of man unwrinkles in the stars,
Bright as a fig;
Where no wax is, the candle shows its hairs.

Dawn breaks behind the eyes;
From poles of skull and toe the windy blood
Slides like a sea;
Nor fenced, nor staked, the gushers of the sky
Spout to the rod
Divining in a smile the oil of tears.

Night in the sockets rounds,
Like some pitch moon, the limit of the globes;
Day lights the bone;
Where no cold is, the skinning gales unpin
The winter's robes;
The film of spring is hanging from the lids.

Light breaks on secret lots,
On tips of thought where thoughts smell in the rain;
When logics die,
The secret of the soil grows through the eye,
And blood jumps in the sun;
Above the waste allotments the dawn halts. A stranger has come
To share my room in the house not right in the head,
A girl mad as birds

Bolting the night of the door with her arm her plume.
Strait in the mazed bed
She deludes the heaven-proof house with entering clouds

Yet she deludes with walking the nightmarish room,
At large as the dead,
Or rides the imagined oceans of the male wards.

She has come possessed
Who admits the delusive light through the bouncing wall,
Possessed by the skies

She sleeps in the narrow trough yet she walks the dust
Yet raves at her will
On the madhouse boards worn thin by my walking tears.

And taken by light in her arms at long and dear last
I may without fail
Suffer the first vision that set fire to the stars. don’t ever get the idea I am a poet; you can see me 
at the racetrack any day half drunk 
betting quarters, sidewheelers and straight thoroughs, 
but let me tell you, there are some women there 
who go where the money goes, and sometimes when you 
look at these whores these onehundreddollar whores 
you wonder sometimes if nature isn’t playing a joke 
dealing out so much breast and ass and the way 
it’s all hung together, you look and you look and 
you look and you can’t believe it; there are ordinary women 
and then there is something else that wants to make you 
tear up paintings and break albums of Beethoven 
across the back of the john; anyhow, the season 
was dragging and the big boys were getting busted, 
all the non-pros, the producers, the cameraman, 
the pushers of Mary, the fur salesman, the owners 
themselves, and Saint Louie was running this day: 
a sidewheeler that broke when he got in close; 
he ran with his head down and was mean and ugly 
and 35 to 1, and I put a ten down on him. 
the driver broke him wide 
took him out by the fence where he’d be alone 
even if he had to travel four times as far, 
and that’s the way he went it 
all the way by the outer fence 
traveling two miles in one 
and he won like he was mad as hell 
and he wasn’t even tired, 
and the biggest blonde of all 
all ass and breast, hardly anything else 
went to the payoff window with me. 


that night I couldn’t destroy her 
although the springs shot sparks 
and they pounded on the walls. 
later she sat there in her slip 
drinking Old Grandad 
and she said 
what’s a guy like you doing 
living in a dump like this? 
and I said 
I’m a poet 


and she threw back her beautiful head and laughed. 


you? you . . . a poet? 


I guess you’re right, I said, I guess you’re right. 


but still she looked good to me, she still looked good, 
and all thanks to an ugly horse 
who wrote this poem. shot in the eye 
shot in the brain 
shot in the **** 
shot like a flower in the dance 

amazing how death wins hands down 
amazing how much credence is given to idiot forms of life 

amazing how laughter has been drowned out 
amazing how viciousness is such a constant 

I must soon declare my own war on their war 
I must hold to my last piece of ground 
I must protect the small space I have made that has allowed me life 

my life not their death 
my death not their death… the phone rang at 1:30 a.m.
and it was a man from Denver: it was on the 2nd floor on Coronado Street
I used to get drunk
and throw the radio through the window
while it was playing, and, of course,
it would break the glass in the window
and the radio would sit there on the roof
still playing
and I'd tell my woman,
"Ah, what a marvelous radio!"
the next morning I'd take the window
off the hinges
and carry it down the street
to the glass man
who would put in another pane.
I kept throwing that radio through the window
each time I got drunk
and it would sit there on the roof
still playing-
a magic radio
a radio with guts,
and each morning I'd take the window 
back to the glass man.
I don't remember how it ended exactly
though I do remember
we finally moved out.
there was a woman downstairs who worked in
the garden in her bathing suit,
she really dug with that trowel
and she put her behind up in the air
and I used to sit in the window
and watch the sun shine all over that thing
while the music played. we had goldfish and they circled around and around
in the bowl on the table near the heavy drapes
covering the picture window and
my mother, always smiling, wanting us all
to be happy, told me, 'be happy Henry!'
and she was right: it's better to be happy if you
can
but my father continued to beat her and me several times a week while
raging inside his 6-foot-two frame because he couldn't
understand what was attacking him from within. 

my mother, poor fish,
wanting to be happy, beaten two or three times a
week, telling me to be happy: 'Henry, smile!
why don't you ever smile?' 

and then she would smile, to show me how, and it was the
saddest smile I ever saw 

one day the goldfish died, all five of them,
they floated on the water, on their sides, their
eyes still open,
and when my father got home he threw them to the cat
there on the kitchen floor and we watched as my mother
smiled he lives in a house with a swimming pool 
and says the job is 
killing him. 
he is 27. I am 44. I can’t seem to 
get rid of 
him. his novels keep coming 
back. “what do you expect me to do?” he screams 
“go to New York and pump the hands of the 
publishers?” 
“no,” I tell him, “but quit your job, go into a 
small room and do the 
thing.” 
“but I need ASSURANCE, I need something to 
go by, some word, some sign!” 
“some men did not think that way: 
Van Gogh, Wagner—” 
“oh hell, Van Gogh had a brother who gave him 
paints whenever he 
needed them!” 


“look,” he said, “I’m over at this broad’s house today and 
this guy walks in. a salesman. you know 
how they talk. drove up in this new 
car. talked about his vacation. said he went to 
Frisco—saw Fidelio up there but forgot who 
wrote it. now this guy is 54 years 
old. so I told him: ‘Fidelio is Beethoven’s only 
opera.’ and then I told 
him: ‘you’re a jerk!’ ‘whatcha mean?’ he 
asked. ‘I mean, you’re a jerk, you’re 54 years old and 
you don’t know anything!’” 


“what happened 
then?” 
“I walked out.” 
“you mean you left him there with 
her?” 
“yes.” 


“I can’t quit my job,” he said. “I always have trouble getting a 
job. I walk in, they look at me, listen to me talk and 
they think right away, ah ha! he’s too intelligent for 
this job, he won’t stay 
so there’s really no sense in hiring 
him. 
now, YOU walk into a place and you don’t have any trouble: 
you look like an old wino, you look like a guy who needs a 
job and they look at you and they think: 
ah ha!: now here’s a guy who really needs work! if we hire 
him he’ll stay a long time and work 
HARD!” 


“do any of those people,” he asks “know you are a 
writer, that you write poetry?” 
“no.” 
“you never talk about 
it. not even to 
me! if I hadn’t seen you in that magazine I’d 
have never known.” 
“that’s right.” 
“still, I’d like to tell these people that you are a 
writer.” 
“I’d still like to 
tell them.” 
“why?” 
“well, they talk about you. they think you are just a 
horseplayer and a drunk.” 
“I am both of those.” 
“well, they talk about you. you have odd ways. you travel alone. 
I’m the only friend you 
have.” 
“yes.” 
“they talk you down. I’d like to defend you. I’d like to tell 
them you write 
poetry.” 
“leave it alone. I work here like they 
do. we’re all the same.” 
“well, I’d like to do it for myself then. I want them to know why 
I travel with 
you. I speak 7 languages, I know my music—” 
“forget it.” 
“all right, I’ll respect your 
wishes. but there’s something else—” 
“what?” 
“I’ve been thinking about getting a 
piano. but then I’ve been thinking about getting a 
violin too but I can’t make up my 
mind!” 
“buy a piano.” 
“you think 
so?” 
“yes.” 


he walks away 
thinking about 
it. 


I was thinking about it 
too: I figure he can always come over with his 
violin and more 
sad music. '- you know, I've either had a family, a job, something
has always been in the
way
but now
I've sold my house, I've found this
place, a large studio, you should see the space and
the light.
for the first time in my life I'm going to have a place and
the time to
create.'
no baby, if you're going to create
you're going to create whether you work
16 hours a day in a coal mine
or
you're going to create in a small room with 3 children
while you're on
welfare,
you're going to create with part of your mind and your
body blown
away,
you're going to create blind
crippled
demented,
you're going to create with a cat crawling up your
back while
the whole city trembles in earthquakes, bombardment,
flood and fire.
baby, air and light and time and space
have nothing to do with it
and don't create anything
except maybe a longer life to find
new excuses
for. the flesh covers the bone 
and they put a mind 
in there and 
sometimes a soul, 
and the women break 
vases against the walls 
and the men drink too 
much 
and nobody finds the 
one 
but keep 
looking 
crawling in and out 
of beds. 
flesh covers 
the bone and the 
flesh searches 
for more than 
flesh. 

there's no chance 
at all: 
we are all trapped 
by a singular 
fate. 

nobody ever finds 
the one. 

the city dumps fill 
the junkyards fill 
the madhouses fill 
the hospitals fill 
the graveyards fill 

nothing else 
fills. 


I see you drinking at a fountain with tiny
blue hands, no, your hands are not tiny
they are small, and the fountain is in France
where you wrote me that last letter and
I answered and never heard from you again.
you used to write insane poems about
ANGELS AND GOD, all in upper case, and you
knew famous artists and most of them
were your lovers, and I wrote back, it' all right,
go ahead, enter their lives, I' not jealous
because we' never met. we got close once in
New Orleans, one half block, but never met, never
touched. so you went with the famous and wrote
about the famous, and, of course, what you found out
is that the famous are worried about
their fame - not the beautiful young girl in bed
with them, who gives them that, and then awakens
in the morning to write upper case poems about
ANGELS AND GOD. we know God is dead, they' told
us, but listening to you I wasn' sure. maybe
it was the upper case. you were one of the
best female poets and I told the publishers, 
editors, " her, print her, she' mad but she'
magic. there' no lie in her fire." I loved you
like a man loves a woman he never touches, only
writes to, keeps little photographs of. I would have
loved you more if I had sat in a small room rolling a
cigarette and listened to you piss in the bathroom,
but that didn' happen. your letters got sadder.
your lovers betrayed you. kid, I wrote back, all
lovers betray. it didn' help. you said
you had a crying bench and it was by a bridge and
the bridge was over a river and you sat on the crying
bench every night and wept for the lovers who had
hurt and forgotten you. I wrote back but never
heard again. a friend wrote me of your suicide
3 or 4 months after it happened. if I had met you
I would probably have been unfair to you or you
to me. it was best like this. A Lady asks me
I speak in season
She seeks reason for an affect, wild often
That is so proud he hath Love for a name
Who denys it can hear the truth now
Wherefore I speak to the present knowers
Having no hope that low-hearted
Can bring sight to such reason
Be there not natural demonstration
I have no will to try proof-bringing
Or say where it hath birth
What is its virtu and power
Its being and every moving
Or delight whereby ‘tis called "to love"
Or if man can show it to sight.

Where memory liveth,
it takes its state
Formed like a diafan from light on shade
Which shadow cometh of Mars and remaineth
Created, having a name sensate,
Custom of the soul,
will from the heart;
Cometh from a seen form which being understood
Taketh locus and remaining in the intellect possible
Wherein hath he neither weight nor still-standing,
Descendeth not by quality but shineth out
Himself his own effect unendingly
Not in delight but in the being aware
Nor can he leave his true likeness otherwhere.

He is not vertu but cometh of that perfection
Which is so postulate not by the reason
But ‘tis felt, I say.
Beyond salvation, holdeth his judging force
Deeming intention to be reason's peer and mate,
Poor in discernment, being thus weakness' friend
Often his power cometh on death in the end,
Be it withstayed
and so swinging counterweight.
Not that it were natural opposite, but only
Wry'd a bit from the perfect,
Let no man say love cometh from chance
Or hath not established lordship
Holding his power even though
Memory hath him no more.

Cometh he to be
when the will
From overplus
Twisteth out of natural measure,
Never adorned with rest Moveth he changing colour
Either to laugh or weep
Contorting the face with fear
resteth but a little
Yet shall ye see of him That he is most often
With folk who deserve him
And his strange quality sets sighs to move
Willing man look into that forméd trace in his mind
And with such uneasiness as rouseth the flame.
Unskilled can not form his image,
He himself moveth not, drawing all to his stillness,
Neither turneth about to seek his delight
Nor yet to see out proving
Be it so great or so small.

He draweth likeness and hue from like nature
So making pleasure more certain in seeming
Nor can stand hid in such nearness,
Beautys be darts tho' not savage
Skilled from such fear a man follows
Deserving spirit, that pierceth.
Nor is he known from his face
But taken in the white light that is allness
Toucheth his aim
Who heareth, seeth not form
But is led by its emanation
Being divided, set out from colour,
Disjunct in mid darkness
Grazeth the light, one moving by other,
Being divided, divided from all falsity
Worthy of trust
From him alone mercy proceedeth.

Go, song, surely thou mayest
Whither it please thee
For so art thou ornate that thy reasons
Shall be praised from thy understanders,
With others hast thou no will to make company.

"Called thrones, balascio or topaze"
Eriugina was not understood in his time
"which explains, perhaps, the delay in condemning him"
And they went looking for Manicheans
And found, so far as I can make out, no Manicheans
So they dug for, and damned Scotus Eriugina
"Authority comes from right reason,
never the other way on"
Hence the delay in condemning him
Aquinas head down in a vacuum,
Aristotle which way in a vacuum?
Sacrum, sacrum, inluminatio coitu.
Lo Sordels si fo di Mantovana
of a castle named Goito.
"Five castles!
"Five castles!"
(king giv' him five castles)
"And what the hell do I know about dye-works?!"
His Holiness has written a letter:
"CHARLES the Mangy of Anjou….
..way you treat your men is a scandal…."
Dilectis miles familiaris…castra Montis Odorisii
Montis Sancti Silvestri pallete et pile…
In partibus Thetis….vineland
land tilled
the land incult
pratis nemoribus pascuis
with legal jurisdiction
his heirs of both sexes,
…sold the damn lot six weeks later,
Sordellus de Godio.
Quan ben m'albir e mon ric pensamen. Bah! I have sung women in three cities,
But it is all the same;
And I will sing of the sun.

Lips, words, and you snare them,
Dreams, words, and they are as jewels,
Strange spells of old deity,
Ravens, nights, allurement:
And they are not;
Having become the souls of song.

Eyes, dreams, lips, and the night goes.
Being upon the road once more,
They are not.
Forgetful in their towers of our tuneing
Once for wind-runeing
They dream us-toward and
Sighing, say, ``Would Cino,
Passionate Cino, of the wrinkling eyes,
Gay Cino, of quick laughter,
Cino, of the dare, the jibe.
Frail Cino, strongest of his tribe
That tramp old ways beneath the sun-light,
Would Cino of the Luth were here!''

Once, twice a year---
Vaguely thus word they:

``Cino?'' ``Oh, eh, Cino Polnesi
The singer is't you mean?''
``Ah yes, passed once our way,
A saucy fellow, but . . .
(Oh they are all one these vagabonds),
Peste! 'tis his own songs?
Or some other's that he sings?
But *you*, My Lord, how with your city?''

My you ``My Lord,'' God's pity!
And all I knew were out, My Lord, you
Were Lack-land Cino, e'en as I am,
O Sinistro.

I have sung women in three cities.
But it is all one.
I will sing of the sun.
. . . eh? . . . they mostly had grey eyes,
But it is all one, I will sing of the sun.

``'Pollo Phoibee, old tin pan, you
Glory to Zeus' aegis-day,
Shield o' steel-blue, th' heaven o'er us
Hath for boss thy lustre gay!

'Pollo Phoibee, to our way-fare
Make thy laugh our wander-lied;
Bid thy 'flugence bear away care.
Cloud and rain-tears pass they fleet!

Seeking e'er the new-laid rast-way
To the gardens of the sun . . .

* * *

I have sung women in three cities
But it is all one.
I will sing of the white birds
In the blue waters of heaven,
The clouds that are spray to its sea." Marlene Dietrich is singing a lament
for mechanical love.
She leans against a mortarboard tree
on a plateau by the seashore.

She's a life-sized toy,
the doll of eternity;
her hair is shaped like an abstract hat
made out of white steel.

Her face is powdered, whitewashed and
immobile like a robot.
Jutting out of her temple, by an eye,
is a little white key.

She gazes through dull blue pupils
set in the whites of her eyes.
She closes them, and the key
turns by itself.

She opens her eyes, and they're blank
like a statue's in a museum.
Her machine begins to move, the key turns
again, her eyes change, she sings.

—you'd think I would have thought a plan
to end the inner grind,
but not till I have found a man
to occupy my mind. I came home and found a lion in my living room
Rushed out on the fire escape screaming Lion! Lion!
Two stenographers pulled their brunnette hair and banged the window shut
I hurried home to Patterson and stayed two days

Called up old Reichian analyst
who'd kicked me out of therapy for smoking marijuana
'It's happened' I panted 'There's a Lion in my living room'
'I'm afraid any discussion would have no value' he hung up

I went to my old boyfriend we got drunk with his girlfriend
I kissed him and announced I had a lion with a mad gleam in my eye
We wound up fighting on the floor I bit his eyebrow he kicked me out
I ended up masturbating in his jeep parked in the street moaning 'Lion.'

Found Joey my novelist friend and roared at him 'Lion!'
He looked at me interested and read me his spontaneous ignu high poetriesI listened for lions all I heard was Elephant Tiglon Hippogriff Unicorn
Ants
But figured he really understood me when we made it in Ignaz Wisdom's 
bathroom.

But next day he sent me a leaf from his Smoky Mountain retreat
'I love you little Bo-Bo with your delicate golden lions
But there being no Self and No Bars therefore the Zoo of your dear Father
hath no lion
You said your mother was mad don't expect me to produce the Monster for
your Bridegroom.'

Confused dazed and exalted bethought me of real lion starved in his stink
in Harlem
Opened the door the room was filled with the bomb blast of his anger
He roaring hungrily at the plaster walls but nobody could hear outside
thru the window
My eye caught the edge of the red neighbor apartment building standing in
deafening stillness
We gazed at each other his implacable yellow eye in the red halo of fur
Waxed rhuemy on my own but he stopped roaring and bared a fang
greeting.
I turned my back and cooked broccoli for supper on an iron gas stove
boilt water and took a hot bath in the old tup under the sink board.

He didn't eat me, tho I regretted him starving in my presence.
Next week he wasted away a sick rug full of bones wheaten hair falling out
enraged and reddening eye as he lay aching huge hairy head on his paws
by the egg-crate bookcase filled up with thin volumes of Plato, & Buddha.

Sat by his side every night averting my eyes from his hungry motheaten
face
stopped eating myself he got weaker and roared at night while I had 
nightmares
Eaten by lion in bookstore on Cosmic Campus, a lion myself starved by
Professor Kandisky, dying in a lion's flophouse circus,
I woke up mornings the lion still added dying on the floor--'Terrible
Presence!'I cried'Eat me or die!'

It got up that afternoon--walked to the door with its paw on the south wall to
steady its trembling body
Let out a soul-rending creak from the bottomless roof of his mouth
thundering from my floor to heaven heavier than a volcano at night in
Mexico
Pushed the door open and said in a gravelly voice "Not this time Baby--
but I will be back again."

Lion that eats my mind now for a decade knowing only your hunger
Not the bliss of your satisfaction O roar of the universe how am I chosen
In this life I have heard your promise I am ready to die I have served
Your starved and ancient Presence O Lord I wait in my room at your
Mercy. Reality is a question 
of realizing how real 
the world is already. 

Time is Eternity, 
ultimate and immovable; 
everyone's an angel. 

It's Heaven's mystery 
of changing perfection : 
absolute Eternity 

changes! Cars are always 
going down the street, 
lamps go off and on. 

It's a great flat plain; 
we can see everything 
on top of a table. 

Clams open on the table, 
lambs are eaten by worms 
on the plain. The motion 

of change is beautiful, 
as well as form called 
in and out of being. 


Next : to distinguish process 
in its particularity with 
an eye to the initiation 

of gratifying new changes 
desired in the real world. 
Here we're overwhelmed 

with such unpleasant detail 
we dream again of Heaven. 
For the world is a mountain 

of shit : if it's going to 
be moved at all, it's got 
to be taken by handfuls. 


Man lives like the unhappy 
whore on River Street who 
in her Eternity gets only 

a couple of bucks and a lot 
of snide remarks in return 
for seeking physical love 

the best way she knows how, 
never really heard of a glad 
job or joyous marriage or 

a difference in the heart : 
or thinks it isn't for her, 
which is her worst misery. That tree said
I don't like that white car under me,
it smells gasoline
That other tree next to it said
O you're always complaining
you're a neurotic
you can see by the way you're bent over. Aunt Rose—now—might I see you 
with your thin face and buck tooth smile and pain 
of rheumatism—and a long black heavy shoe 
for your bony left leg 
limping down the long hall in Newark on the running carpet 
past the black grand piano 
in the day room 
where the parties were 
and I sang Spanish loyalist songs 
in a high squeaky voice 
(hysterical) the committee listening 
while you limped around the room 
collected the money— 
Aunt Honey, Uncle Sam, a stranger with a cloth arm 
in his pocket 
and huge young bald head 
of Abraham Lincoln Brigade 


—your long sad face 
your tears of sexual frustration (what smothered sobs and bony hips 
under the pillows of Osborne Terrace) 
—the time I stood on the toilet seat naked 
and you powdered my thighs with calamine 
against the poison ivy—my tender 
and shamed first black curled hairs 
what were you thinking in secret heart then 
knowing me a man already— 
and I an ignorant girl of family silence on the thin pedestal 
of my legs in the bathroom—Museum of Newark. 


Aunt Rose 
Hitler is dead, Hitler is in Eternity; Hitler is with 
Tamburlane and Emily Brontë 


Though I see you walking still, a ghost on Osborne Terrace 
down the long dark hall to the front door 
limping a little with a pinched smile 
in what must have been a silken 
flower dress 
welcoming my father, the Poet, on his visit to Newark 
—see you arriving in the living room 
dancing on your crippled leg 
and clapping hands his book 
had been accepted by Liveright 


Hitler is dead and Liveright’s gone out of business 
The Attic of the Past and Everlasting Minute are out of print 
Uncle Harry sold his last silk stocking 
Claire quit interpretive dancing school 
Buba sits a wrinkled monument in Old 
Ladies Home blinking at new babies 


last time I saw you was the hospital 
pale skull protruding under ashen skin 
blue veined unconscious girl 
in an oxygen tent 
the war in Spain has ended long ago 
Aunt Rose The flower in the glass peanut bottle formerly in the
kitchen crooked to take a place in the light, 
the closet door opened, because I used it before, it
kindly stayed open waiting for me, its owner.

I began to feel my misery in pallet on floor, listening
to music, my misery, that's why I want to sing.
The room closed down on me, I expected the presence 
of the Creator, I saw my gray painted walls and
ceiling, they contained my room, they contained
me
as the sky contained my garden,
I opened my door

The rambler vine climbed up the cottage post,
the leaves in the night still where the day had placed
them, the animal heads of the flowers where they had 
arisen
to think at the sun

Can I bring back the words? Will thought of 
transcription haze my mental open eye?
The kindly search for growth, the gracious de-
sire to exist of the flowers, my near ecstasy at existing
among them
The privilege to witness my existence-you too
must seek the sun...

My books piled up before me for my use
waiting in space where I placed them, they
haven't disappeared, time's left its remnants and qual-
ities for me to use--my words piled up, my texts, my 
manuscripts, my loves.
I had a moment of clarity, saw the feeling in
the heart of things, walked out to the garden crying.
Saw the red blossoms in the night light, sun's 
gone, they had all grown, in a moment, and were wait-
ing stopped in time for the day sun to come and give
them...
Flowers which as in a dream at sunset I watered
faithfully not knowing how much I loved them.
I am so lonely in my glory--except they too out
there--I looked up--those red bush blossoms beckon-
ing and peering in the window waiting in the blind love,
their leaves too have hope and are upturned top flat
to the sky to receive--all creation open to receive--the 
flat earth itself.

The music descends, as does the tall bending 
stalk of the heavy blssom, because it has to, to stay
alive, to continue to the last drop of joy.
The world knows the love that's in its breast as
in the flower, the suffering lonely world.
The Father is merciful.

The light socket is crudely attached to the ceil-
ing, after the house was built, to receive a plug which
sticks in it alright, and serves my phonograph now...

The closet door is open for me, where I left it,
since I left it open, it has graciously stayed open.
The kitchen has no door, the hole there will 
admit me should I wish to enter the kitchen.
I remember when I first got laid, H.P. gra-
ciously took my cherry, I sat on the docks of Prov-
incetown, age 23, joyful, elevated in hope with the
Father, the door to the womb wasopen to admit me
if I wished to enter.

There are unused electricity plugs all over my
house if I ever needed them.
The kitchen window is open, to admit air...
The telephone--sad to relate--sits on the
floor--I haven't had the money to get it connected--

I want people to bow when they see me and say
he is gifted with poetry, he has seen the presence of
the Creator
And the Creator gave me a shot of his presence
to gratify my wish, so as not to cheat me of my yearning
for him. Real as a dream
What shall I do with this great opportunity to fly?
What is the interpretation of this planet, this moon?
if I can dream that I dream / and dream anything dreamable / can I dream
I am awake / and why do that?
When I dream in a dream that I wake / up what
happens when I try to move?
I dream that I move
and the effort moves and moves
till I move / and my arm hurts
Then I wake up / dismayed / I was dreaming / I was waking
when I was dreaming still / just now.
and try to remember next time in dreams
that I am in dreaming.
And dream anything I want when I'm awaken.
When I'm in awakeness what do I desire?
I desire to fulfill my emotional belly.
My whole body my heart in my fingertops thrill with some old fulfillments.
Pages of celestial rhymes burning fire-words
unconsumable but disappear.
Arcane parchments my own and the universe the answer.
Belly to Belly and knee to knee.
The hot spurt of my body to thee and thee
old boy / dreamy Earl / you Prince of Paterson / now king of me / lost

Haledon

first dream that made me take down my pants
urgently to show the cars / auto tracks / rolling down avenue hill.
That far back what do I remember / but the face of the leader of the gang
was blond / that loved me / one day on the steps of his house blocks away
all afternoon I told him about my magic Spell
I can do anything I want / palaces millions / chemistry sets / chicken

coops / white horses

stables and torture basements / I inspect my naked victims
chained upside down / my fingertips thrill approval on their thighs
white hairless cheeks I may kiss all I want
at my mercy. on the racks.
I pass with my strong attendants / I am myself naked
bending down with my buttocks out
for their smacks of reproval / o the heat of desire
liek shit in my asshole. The strange gang
across the street / thru the grocerystore / in the wood alley / out in the open

on the corner

Because I lied to the Dentist about that chickencoop roofing / slate stolen off 

his garage

by me and the boy I loved who would punish me if he knew
what I loved him.
That now I have had that boy back in another blond form
Peter Orlovsky a Chinese teenager in Bangkok ten years twenty years
Jo Army on the campus / white blond loins / my mouth hath kisses /
full of his cock / my ass burning / full of his cock
all that I do desire. In dream and awake
this handsome body mine / answered
all I desired / intimate loves / open eyed / revealed at last / clothes on the 

floor 
Underwear the most revealing stripped off below the belly button in bed.
That's that / yes yes / the flat cocks the red pricks the gentle public hair / 

alone with me

my magic spell. My power / what I desire alone / what after thirty years / 
I got forever / after thirty years / satisfied enough with Peter / with all I

wanted /

with many men I knew one generation / our sperm passing
into our mouths and bellies / beautiful when I love / given.
Now the dream oldens / I olden / my hair a year long / my thirtyeight 

birthday approaching.

I dream I
am bald / am disappearing / the campus unrecognizable / Haledon Avenue
will be covered with neon / motels / Supermarkets / iron
the porches and woods changed when i go back / to see Earl again
He'll be bald / fleshy father / I could pursie him further in the garage
If there's still a garage on the hill / on the planet / when I get back.

From Asia.

If I could even remember his name or his face / or find him /
When I was ten / perhaps he exists in some form.
With a belly and a belt and an auto
Whatever his last name / I never knew / in the phonebook / the Akashic

records.

I'll write my Inspiration for all Mankind to remember,
My Idea, the secret cave / in the clothes closet / that house probably down /
Nothing to go back to / everything's gone / only my idea
that's disappearing / even in dreams / gray dust piles / instant annihilation
of World War II and all its stainless steel shining-mouthed cannons
much less me and my grammar school kisses / I never kissed in time / 
and go on kissing in dream and out on the street / as if it were for ever.
No forever left! Even my oldest forever gone, in Bangkok, in Benares,
swept up with words and bodies / all into the brown Ganges / 
passing the burning grounds and / into the police state.
My mind, my mind / you had six feet of Earth to hoe /
Why didn't you remember and plant the seed of Law and gather the sprouts

of What?

the golden blossoms of what idea? If I dream that I dream / what dream
should I dream next? Motorcycle rickshaws / parting lamp shine / little

taxis / horses hoofs

on this Saigon midnight street. Angkor Wat ahead and the ruined city's old

Hindu faces

and there was a dream about Eternity. What should I dream when I wake?
What's left to dream, more Chinese meat? More magic Spells? More youths

to love before I change & disappear?

More dream words? For now that I know that I am dreaming / 
What next for you Allen? Run down to the Presidents Palace full of Morphine /
The cocks crowing / in the street / Dawn trucks / What is the question?
Do I need sleep, now that there's light in the window?
I'll go to sleep. Signing off until / the next idea / the moving van arrives

empty

at the Doctor's house full of Chinese furniture. I’m delighted by the velocity of money as it whistles through the windows 
of Lower East Side
Delighted by skyscrapers rising the old grungy apartments falling on 
84th Street
Delighted by inflation that drives me out on the street
After all what good’s the family farm, why eat turkey by thousands every 
Thanksgiving?
Why not have Star Wars? Why have the same old America?!?
George Washington wasn’t good enough! Tom Paine pain in the neck, 
Whitman what a jerk!
I’m delighted by double digit interest rates in the Capitalist world
I always was a communist, now we’ll win
an usury makes the walls thinner, books thicker & dumber
Usury makes my poetry more valuable
my manuscripts worth their weight in useless gold -
Now everybody’s atheist like me, nothing’s sacred
buy and sell your grandmother, eat up old age homes,
Peddle babies on the street, pretty boys for sale on Times Square -
You can shoot heroin, I can sniff cocaine,
macho men can fite on the Nicaraguan border and get paid with paper!
The velocity’s what counts as the National Debt gets higher
Everybody running after the rising dollar
Crowds of joggers down broadway past City Hall on the way to the Fed
Nobody reads Dostoyevsky books so they’ll have to give a passing ear 
to my fragmented ravings in between President’s speeches 
Nothing’s happening but the collapse of the Economy
so I can go back to sleep till the landlord wins his eviction suit in court. White fog lifting & falling on mountain-brow 
Trees moving in rivers of wind 
The clouds arise 
as on a wave, gigantic eddy lifting mist 
above teeming ferns exquisitely swayed 
along a green crag 
glimpsed thru mullioned glass in valley raine— 


Bardic, O Self, Visitacione, tell naught 
but what seen by one man in a vale in Albion, 
of the folk, whose physical sciences end in Ecology, 
the wisdom of earthly relations, 
of mouths & eyes interknit ten centuries visible 
orchards of mind language manifest human, 
of the satanic thistle that raises its horned symmetry 
flowering above sister grass-daisies’ pink tiny 
bloomlets angelic as lightbulbs— 


Remember 160 miles from London’s symmetrical thorned tower 
& network of TV pictures flashing bearded your Self 
the lambs on the tree-nooked hillside this day bleating 
heard in Blake’s old ear, & the silent thought of Wordsworth in eld Stillness 
clouds passing through skeleton arches of Tintern Abbey— 
Bard Nameless as the Vast, babble to Vastness! 


All the Valley quivered, one extended motion, wind 
undulating on mossy hills 
a giant wash that sank white fog delicately down red runnels 
on the mountainside 
whose leaf-branch tendrils moved asway 
in granitic undertow down— 
and lifted the floating Nebulous upward, and lifted the arms of the trees 
and lifted the grasses an instant in balance 
and lifted the lambs to hold still 
and lifted the green of the hill, in one solemn wave 


A solid mass of Heaven, mist-infused, ebbs thru the vale, 
a wavelet of Immensity, lapping gigantic through Llanthony Valley, 
the length of all England, valley upon valley under Heaven’s ocean 
tonned with cloud-hang, 
—Heaven balanced on a grassblade. 
Roar of the mountain wind slow, sigh of the body, 
One Being on the mountainside stirring gently 
Exquisite scales trembling everywhere in balance, 
one motion thru the cloudy sky-floor shifting on the million feet of daisies, 
one Majesty the motion that stirred wet grass quivering 
to the farthest tendril of white fog poured down 
through shivering flowers on the mountain’s head— 


No imperfection in the budded mountain, 
Valleys breathe, heaven and earth move together, 
daisies push inches of yellow air, vegetables tremble, 
grass shimmers green 
sheep speckle the mountainside, revolving their jaws with empty eyes, 
horses dance in the warm rain, 
tree-lined canals network live farmland, 
blueberries fringe stone walls on hawthorn’d hills, 
pheasants croak on meadows haired with fern— 


Out, out on the hillside, into the ocean sound, into delicate gusts of wet air, 
Fall on the ground, O great Wetness, O Mother, No harm on your body! 
Stare close, no imperfection in the grass, 
each flower Buddha-eye, repeating the story, 
myriad-formed— 
Kneel before the foxglove raising green buds, mauve bells dropped 
doubled down the stem trembling antennae, 
& look in the eyes of the branded lambs that stare 
breathing stockstill under dripping hawthorn— 
I lay down mixing my beard with the wet hair of the mountainside, 
smelling the brown vagina-moist ground, harmless, 
tasting the violet thistle-hair, sweetness— 
One being so balanced, so vast, that its softest breath 
moves every floweret in the stillness on the valley floor, 
trembles lamb-hair hung gossamer rain-beaded in the grass, 
lifts trees on their roots, birds in the great draught 
hiding their strength in the rain, bearing same weight, 


Groan thru breast and neck, a great Oh! to earth heart 
Calling our Presence together 
The great secret is no secret 
Senses fit the winds, 
Visible is visible, 
rain-mist curtains wave through the bearded vale, 
gray atoms wet the wind’s kabbala 
Crosslegged on a rock in dusk rain, 
rubber booted in soft grass, mind moveless, 
breath trembles in white daisies by the roadside, 
Heaven breath and my own symmetric 
Airs wavering thru antlered green fern 
drawn in my navel, same breath as breathes thru Capel-Y-Ffn, 
Sounds of Aleph and Aum 
through forests of gristle, 
my skull and Lord Hereford’s Knob equal, 
All Albion one. 


What did I notice? Particulars! The 
vision of the great One is myriad— 
smoke curls upward from ashtray, 
house fire burned low, 
The night, still wet & moody black heaven 
starless 
upward in motion with wet wind.These are the names of the companies that have made
money from this war
nineteenhundredsixtyeight Annodomini fourthousand
eighty Hebraic
These are the Corporations who have profited by merchan-
dising skinburning phosphorous or shells fragmented
to thousands of fleshpiercing needles
and here listed money millions gained by each combine for
manufacture
and here are gains numbered, index'd swelling a decade, set
in order,
here named the Fathers in office in these industries, tele-
phones directing finance,
names of directors, makers of fates, and the names of the 
stockholders of these destined Aggregates,
and here are the names of their ambassadors to the Capital,
representatives to legislature, those who sit drinking
in hotel lobbies to persuade,
and separate listed, those who drop Amphetamine with
military, gossip, argue, and persuade
suggesting policy naming language proposing strategy, this
done for fee as ambassadors to Pentagon, consul-
tants to military, paid by their industry:
and these are the names of the generals & captains mili-
tary, who know thus work for war goods manufactur-
ers;
and above these, listed, the names of the banks, combines,
investment trusts that control these industries:
and these are the names of the newspapers owned by these
banks
and these are the names of the airstations owned by these
combines;
and these are the numbers of thousands of citizens em-
ployed by these businesses named;
and the beginning of this accounting is 1958 and the end
1968, that static be contained in orderly mind,
coherent and definite,
and the first form of this litany begun first day December
1967 furthers this poem of these States. 
Blandly mother 
takes him strolling 
by railroad and by river 
-he's the son of the absconded 
hot rod angel- 
and he imagines cars 
and rides them in his dreams, 

so lonely growing up among 
the imaginary automobiles 
and dead souls of Tarrytown 

to create 
out of his own imagination 
the beauty of his wild 
forebears-a mythology 
he cannot inherit. 

Will he later hallucinate 
his gods? Waking 
among mysteries with 
an insane gleam 
of recollection? 

The recognition- 
something so rare 
in his soul, 
met only in dreams 
-nostalgias 
of another life. 

A question of the soul. 
And the injured 
losing their injury 
in their innocence 
-a cock, a cross, 
an excellence of love. 

And the father grieves 
in flophouse 
complexities of memory 
a thousand miles 
away, unknowing 
of the unexpected 
youthful stranger 
bumming toward his door. 'I'll make you one,' he said, 'and balance it
Perfectly on you.' So I could almost feel
The plumb line of the creased tweed hit my heel,

My shoulders like a spar or arms of a scale
Under the jacket, my whole shape realigned
In ways that suited me down to the ground.

So Although a suit was the last thing that I needed
I weighed his words and wore them and decided 
There and then it was going for a song. To-night, a first movement, a pulse, 
As if the rain in bogland gathered head
To slip and flood: a bog-burst, 
A gash breaking open the ferny bed.
Your back is a firm line of eastern coast
And arms and legs are thrown
Beyond your gradual hills. I caress
The heaving province where our past has grown.
I am the tall kingdom over your shoulder
That you would neither cajole nor ignore.
Conquest is a lie. I grow older
Conceding your half-independant shore
Within whose borders now my legacy
Culminates inexorably.

II

And I am still imperially
Male, leaving you with pain, 
The rending process in the colony, 
The battering ram, the boom burst from within.
The act sprouted an obsinate fifth column
Whose stance is growing unilateral.
His heart beneath your heart is a wardrum
Mustering force. His parasitical
And ignorant little fists already
Beat at your borders and I know they're cocked
At me across the water. No treaty
I foresee will salve completely your tracked
And stretchmarked body, the big pain
That leaves you raw, like opened ground, again My 'place of clear water,'
the first hill in the world
where springs washed into
the shiny grass

and darkened cobbles
in the bed of the lane.
Anahorish, soft gradient
of consonant, vowel-meadow,

after-image of lamps
swung through the yards
on winter evenings.
With pails and barrows

those mound-dwellers
go waist-deep in mist
to break the light ice
at wells and dunghills. Anything can happen. You know how Jupiter
Will mostly wait for clouds to gather head
Before he hurls the lightning? Well, just now
He galloped his thunder cart and his horses

Across a clear blue sky. It shook the earth
And the clogged underearth, the River Styx,
The winding streams, the Atlantic shore itself.
Anything can happen, the tallest towers

Be overturned, those in high places daunted,
Those overlooked regarded. Stropped-beak Fortune
Swoops, making the air gasp, tearing the crest off one,
Setting it down bleeding on the next.

Ground gives. The heaven's weight
Lifts up off Atlas like a kettle-lid.
Capstones shift, nothing resettles right.
Telluric ash and fire-spores boil away. Late August, given heavy rain and sun
For a full week, the blackberries would ripen.
At first, just one, a glossy purple clot
Among others, red, green, hard as a knot.
You ate that first one and its flesh was sweet
Like thickened wine: summer's blood was in it
Leaving stains upon the tongue and lust for
Picking. Then red ones inked up and that hunger
Sent us out with milk cans, pea tins, jam-pots
Where briars scratched and wet grass bleached our boots.
Round hayfields, cornfields and potato-drills
We trekked and picked until the cans were full
Until the tinkling bottom had been covered
With green ones, and on top big dark blobs burned
Like a plate of eyes. Our hands were peppered
With thorn pricks, our palms sticky as Bluebeard's.
We hoarded the fresh berries in the byre.
But when the bath was filled we found a fur,
A rat-grey fungus, glutting on our cache.
The juice was stinking too. Once off the bush
The fruit fermented, the sweet flesh would turn sour.
I always felt like crying. It wasn't fair
That all the lovely canfuls smelt of rot.
Each year I hoped they'd keep, knew they would not. We have no prairies
To slice a big sun at evening--
Everywhere the eye concedes to
Encrouching horizon,

Is wooed into the cyclops' eye
Of a tarn. Our unfenced country
Is bog that keeps crusting
Between the sights of the sun.

They've taken the skeleton
Of the Great Irish Elk
Out of the peat, set it up
An astounding crate full of air.

Butter sunk under
More than a hundred years
Was recovered salty and white.
The ground itself is kind, black butter

Melting and opening underfoot,
Missing its last definition
By millions of years.
They'll never dig coal here,

Only the waterlogged trunks
Of great firs, soft as pulp.
Our pioneers keep striking
Inwards and downwards,

Every layer they strip
Seems camped on before.
The bogholes might be Atlantic seepage.
The wet centre is bottomless. He would drink by himself 
And raise a weathered thumb 
Towards the high shelf, 
Calling another rum 
And blackcurrant, without 
Having to raise his voice, 
Or order a quick stout 
By a lifting of the eyes 
And a discreet dumb-show 
Of pulling off the top; 
At closing time would go 
In waders and peaked cap 
Into the showery dark, 
A dole-kept breadwinner 
But a natural for work. 
I loved his whole manner, 
Sure-footed but too sly, 
His deadpan sidling tact, 
His fisherman's quick eye 
And turned observant back. 

Incomprehensible 
To him, my other life. 
Sometimes on the high stool, 
Too busy with his knife 
At a tobacco plug 
And not meeting my eye, 
In the pause after a slug 
He mentioned poetry. 
We would be on our own 
And, always politic 
And shy of condescension, 
I would manage by some trick 
To switch the talk to eels 
Or lore of the horse and cart 
Or the Provisionals. 

But my tentative art 
His turned back watches too: 
He was blown to bits 
Out drinking in a curfew 
Others obeyed, three nights 
After they shot dead 
The thirteen men in Derry. 
PARAS THIRTEEN, the walls said, 
BOGSIDE NIL. That Wednesday 
Everyone held 
His breath and trembled. 

II 


It was a day of cold 
Raw silence, wind-blown 
Surplice and soutane: 
Rained-on, flower-laden 
Coffin after coffin 
Seemed to float from the door 
Of the packed cathedral 
Like blossoms on slow water. 
The common funeral 
Unrolled its swaddling band, 
Lapping, tightening 
Till we were braced and bound 
Like brothers in a ring. 

But he would not be held 
At home by his own crowd 
Whatever threats were phoned, 
Whatever black flags waved. 
I see him as he turned 
In that bombed offending place, 
Remorse fused with terror 
In his still knowable face, 
His cornered outfaced stare 
Blinding in the flash. 

He had gone miles away 
For he drank like a fish 
Nightly, naturally 
Swimming towards the lure 
Of warm lit-up places, 
The blurred mesh and murmur 
Drifting among glasses 
In the gregarious smoke. 
How culpable was he 
That last night when he broke 
Our tribe's complicity? 
'Now, you're supposed to be 
An educated man, ' 
I hear him say. 'Puzzle me 
The right answer to that one.' 

III 


I missed his funeral, 
Those quiet walkers 
And sideways talkers 
Shoaling out of his lane 
To the respectable 
Purring of the hearse... 
They move in equal pace 
With the habitual 
Slow consolation 
Of a dawdling engine, 
The line lifted, hand 
Over fist, cold sunshine 
On the water, the land 
Banked under fog: that morning 
I was taken in his boat, 
The screw purling, turning 
Indolent fathoms white, 
I tasted freedom with him. 
To get out early, haul 
Steadily off the bottom, 
Dispraise the catch, and smile 
As you find a rhythm 
Working you, slow mile by mile, 
Into your proper haunt 
Somewhere, well out, beyond... 

Dawn-sniffing revenant, 
Plodder through midnight rain, 
Question me again

She taught me what her uncle once taught her:
How easily the biggest coal block split
If you got the grain and the hammer angled right.

The sound of that relaxed alluring blow
Its co-opted and obliterated echo,
Taught me to hit, taught me to loosen,

Taught me between the hammer and the block
To face the music. Teach me now to listen,
To strike it rich behind the linear black.

A cobble thrown a hundred years ago
Keeps coming at me, the first stone
Aimed at a great-grandmother's turncoat brow.
The pony jerks and the riot's on.
She's couched low in the trap
Running the gauntlet that first Sunday
Down the brae to Mass at a panicked gallop.
He whips on through the town to cries of 'Lundy!'

Call her 'The Convert.' 'The Exogamous Bride.'
Anyhow, it is a genre piece
Inherited on my mother's side
And mine to dispose with now she's gone.
Instead of silver and Victorian lace
the exonerating, exonerated stone.

Polished linoleum shone there. Brass taps shone.
The china cups were very white and big --
An unchipped set with sugar bowl and jug.
The kettle whistled. Sandwich and tea scone
Were present and correct. In case it run,
The butter must be kept out of the sun.
And don't be dropping crumbs. Don't tilt your chair.
Don't reach. Don't point. Don't make noise when you stir.

It is Number 5, New Row, Land of the Dead,
Where grandfather is rising from his place
With spectacles pushed back on a clean bald head
To welcome a bewildered homing daughter
Before she even knocks. 'What's this? What's this?'
And they sit down in the shining room together.

When all the others were away at Mass
I was all hers as we peeled potatoes.
They broke the silence, let fall one by one
Like solder weeping off the soldering iron:
Cold comforts set between us, things to share
Gleaming in a bucket of clean water.
And again let fall. Little pleasant splashes
From each other's work would bring us to our senses.

So while the parish priest at her bedside
Went hammer and tongs at prayers for the dying
And some were responding and some crying
I remembered her head bent towards my head,
Her breath in mine, our fluent dipping knives --
Never closer the whole rest of our lives.

Fear of affectation made her affect
Inadequacy whenever it came to
Pronouncing words 'beyond her'. Bertold Brek.
She'd manage something hampered and askew
Every time, as if she might betray
The hampered and inadequate by too
Well-adjusted a vocabulary.
With more challenge than pride, she'd tell me, 'You
Know all them things.' So I governed my tongue
In front of her, a genuinely well-
Adjusted adequate betrayal
Of what I knew better. I'd naw and aye
And decently relapse into the wrong
Grammar which kept us allied and at bay.

The cool that came off sheets just off the line
Made me think the damp must still be in them
But when I took my corners of the linen
And pulled against her, first straight down the hem
And then diagonally, then flapped and shook
The fabric like a sail in a cross-wind,
They'd make a dried-out undulating thwack.
So we'd stretch and fold and end up hand to hand
For a split second as if nothing had happened
For nothing had that had not always happened
Beforehand, day by day, just touch and go,
Coming close again by holding back
In moves where I was x and she was o
Inscribed in sheets she'd sewn from ripped-out flour sacks.

In the first flush of the Easter holidays
The ceremonies during Holy Week
Were highpoints of our Sons and Lovers phase.
The midnight fire. The paschal candlestick.
Elbow to elbow, glad to be kneeling next
To each other up there near the front
Of the packed church, we would follow the text
And rubrics for the blessing of the font.
As the hind longs for the streams, so my soul . . .
Dippings. Towellings. The water breathed on.
The water mixed with chrism and oil.
Cruet tinkle. Formal incensation
And the psalmist's outcry taken up with pride:
Day and night my tears have been my bread.

In the last minutes he said more to her
Almost than in their whole life together.
'You'll be in New Row on Monday night
And I'll come up for you and you'll be glad
When I walk in the door . . . Isn't that right?'
His head was bent down to her propped-up head.
She could not hear but we were overjoyed.
He called her good and girl. Then she was dead,
The searching for a pulsebeat was abandoned
And we all knew one thing by being there.
The space we stood around had been emptied
Into us to keep, it penetrated
Clearances that suddenly stood open.
High cries were felled and a pure change happened.

I thought of walking round and round a space
Utterly empty, utterly a source
Where the decked chestnut tree had lost its place
In our front hedge above the wallflowers.
The white chips jumped and jumped and skited high.
I heard the hatchet's differentiated
Accurate cut, the crack, the sigh
And collapse of what luxuriated
Through the shocked tips and wreckage of it all.
Deep-planted and long gone, my coeval
Chestnut from a jam jar in a hole,
Its heft and hush became a bright nowhere,
A soul ramifying and forever
Silent, beyond silence listened for. 
All year the flax-dam festered in the heart
Of the townland; green and heavy headed
Flax had rotted there, weighted down by huge sods.
Daily it sweltered in the punishing sun.
Bubbles gargled delicately, bluebottles
Wove a strong gauze of sound around the smell.
There were dragon-flies, spotted butterflies,
But best of all was the warm thick slobber
Of frogspawn that grew like clotted water
In the shade of the banks. Here, every spring
I would fill jampotfuls of the jellied
Specks to range on window-sills at home,
On shelves at school, and wait and watch until
The fattening dots burst into nimble-
Swimming tadpoles. Miss Walls would tell us how
The daddy frog was called a bullfrog
And how he croaked and how the mammy frog
Laid hundreds of little eggs and this was
Frogspawn. You could tell the weather by frogs too
For they were yellow in the sun and brown
In rain.
Then one hot day when fields were rank
With cowdung in the grass the angry frogs
Invaded the flax-dam; I ducked through hedges
To a coarse croaking that I had not heard
Before. The air was thick with a bass chorus.
Right down the dam gross-bellied frogs were cocked
On sods; their loose necks pulsed like sails. Some hopped:
The slap and plop were obscene threats. Some sat
Poised like mud grenades, their blunt heads farting.
I sickened, turned, and ran. The great slime kings
Were gathered there for vengeance and I knew
That if I dipped my hand the spawn would clutch it. There, in the corner, staring at his drink. 
The cap juts like a gantry's crossbeam, 
Cowling plated forehead and sledgehead jaw. 
Speech is clamped in the lips' vice. 

That fist would dropp a hammer on a Catholic- 
Oh yes, that kind of thing could start again; 
The only Roman collar he tolerates 
Smiles all round his sleek pint of porter. 

Mosaic imperatives bang home like rivets; 
God is a foreman with certain definite views 
Who orders life in shifts of work and leisure. 
A factory horn will blare the Resurrection. 

He sits, strong and blunt as a Celtic cross, 
Clearly used to silence and an armchair: 
Tonight the wife and children will be quiet 
At slammed door and smoker's cough in the hall.It is December in Wicklow:
Alders dripping, birches
Inheriting the last light,
The ash tree cold to look at.

A comet that was lost
Should be visible at sunset,
Those million tons of light
Like a glimmer of haws and rose-hips,

And I sometimes see a falling star.
If I could come on meteorite!
Instead I walk through damp leaves,
Husks, the spent flukes of autumn,

Imagining a hero
On some muddy compound,
His gift like a slingstone
Whirled for the desperate.

How did I end up like this?
I often think of my friends'
Beautiful prismatic counselling
And the anvil brains of some who hate me

As I sit weighing and weighing
My responsible tristia.
For what? For the ear? For the people?
For what is said behind-backs?

Rain comes down through the alders,
Its low conductive voices
Mutter about let-downs and erosions
And yet each drop recalls

The diamond absolutes.
I am neither internee nor informer;
An inner йmigrй, grown long-haired
And thoughtful; a wood-kerne

Escaped from the massacre,
Taking protective colouring
From bole and bark, feeling
Every wind that blows;

Who, blowing up these sparks
For their meagre heat, have missed
The once-in-a-lifetime portent,
The comet's pulsing rose. My father worked with a horse-plough,
His shoulders globed like a full sail strung
Between the shafts and the furrow.
The horse strained at his clicking tongue. 

An expert. He would set the wing
And fit the bright steel-pointed sock.
The sod rolled over without breaking.
At the headrig, with a single pluck 

Of reins, the sweating team turned round
And back into the land. His eye
Narrowed and angled at the ground,
Mapping the furrow exactly. 

I stumbled in his hob-nailed wake,
Fell sometimes on the polished sod;
Sometimes he rode me on his back
Dipping and rising to his plod. 

I wanted to grow up and plough,
To close one eye, stiffen my arm.
All I ever did was follow
In his broad shadow round the farm. 

I was a nuisance, tripping, falling,
Yapping always. But today 
It is my father who keeps stumbling
Behind me, and will not go away. Shifting brilliancies. Then winter light 
In a doorway, and on the stone doorstep 
A beggar shivering in silhouette. 

So the particular judgement might be set: 
Bare wallstead and a cold hearth rained into- 
Bright puddle where the soul-free cloud-life roams. 

And after the commanded journey, what? 
Nothing magnificent, nothing unknown. 
A gazing out from far away, alone. 

And it is not particular at all, 
Just old truth dawning: there is no next-time-round. 
Unroofed scope. Knowledge-freshening wind. 

VI 

Once, as a child, out in a field of sheep, 
Thomas Hardy pretended to be dead 
And lay down flat among their dainty shins. 

In that sniffed-at, bleated-into, grassy space 
He experimented with infinity. 
His small cool brow was like an anvil waiting 

For sky to make it sing the prefect pitch 
Of his dumb being, and that stir he caused 
In the fleece-hustle was the original 

Of a ripple that would travel eighty years 
Outward from there, to be the same ripple 
Inside him at its last circumference. 

VII 

(I misremembered. He went down on all fours, 
Florence Emily says, crossing a ewe-leaze. 
Hardy sought the creatures face to face, 

Their witless eyes and liability 
To panic made him feel less alone, 
Made proleptic sorrow stand a moment 

Over him, perfectly known and sure. 
And then the flock's dismay went swimming on 
Into the blinks and murmurs and deflections 

He'd know at parties in renowned old age 
When sometimes he imagined himself a ghost 
And circulated with that new perspective.) 

VIII 

The annals say: when the monks of Clonmacnoise 
Were all at prayers inside the oratory 
A ship appeared above them in the air. 

The anchor dragged along behind so deep 
It hooked itself into the altar rails 
And then, as the big hull rocked to a standstill, 

A crewman shinned and grappled down the rope 
And struggled to release it. But in vain. 
'This man can't bear our life here and will drown, ' 

The abbot said, 'unless we help him.' So 
They did, the freed ship sailed, and the man climbed back 
Out of the marvellous as he had known it. The tightness and the nilness round that space 
when the car stops in the road, the troops inspect 
its make and number and, as one bends his face 

towards your window, you catch sight of more 
on a hill beyond, eyeing with intent 
down cradled guns that hold you under cover 

and everything is pure interrogation 
until a rifle motions and you move 
with guarded unconcerned acceleration— 

a little emptier, a little spent 
as always by that quiver in the self, 
subjugated, yes, and obedient. 

So you drive on to the frontier of writing 
where it happens again. The guns on tripods; 
the sergeant with his on-off mike repeating 

data about you, waiting for the squawk 
of clearance; the marksman training down 
out of the sun upon you like a hawk. 

And suddenly you're through, arraigned yet freed, 
as if you'd passed from behind a waterfall 
on the black current of a tarmac road 

past armor-plated vehicles, out between 
the posted soldiers flowing and receding 
like tree shadows into the polished windscreen. The piper coming from far away is you
With a whitewash brush for a sporran
Wobbling round you, a kitchen chair
Upside down on your shoulder, your right arm
Pretending to tuck the bag beneath your elbow,
Your pop-eyes and big cheeks nearly bursting
With laughter, but keeping the drone going on
Interminably, between catches of breath.

*

The whitewash brush. An old blanched skirted thing
On the back of the byre door, biding its time
Until spring airs spelled lime in a work-bucket
And a potstick to mix it in with water.
Those smells brought tears to the eyes, we inhaled
A kind of greeny burning and thought of brimstone.
But the slop of the actual job
Of brushing walls, the watery grey
Being lashed on in broad swatches, then drying out
Whiter and whiter, all that worked like magic.
Where had we come from, what was this kingdom
We knew we'd been restored to? Our shadows
Moved on the wall and a tar border glittered
The full length of the house, a black divide
Like a freshly opened, pungent, reeking trench.

*

Piss at the gable, the dead will congregate.
But separately. The women after dark,
Hunkering there a moment before bedtime,
The only time the soul was let alone,
The only time that face and body calmed
In the eye of heaven.

Buttermilk and urine,
The pantry, the housed beasts, the listening bedroom.
We were all together there in a foretime,
In a knowledge that might not translate beyond
Those wind-heaved midnights we still cannot be sure
Happened or not. It smelled of hill-fort clay
And cattle dung. When the thorn tree was cut down
You broke your arm. I shared the dread
When a strange bird perched for days on the byre roof.

*

That scene, with Macbeth helpless and desperate
In his nightmare--when he meets the hags agains
And sees the apparitions in the pot--
I felt at home with that one all right. Hearth,
Steam and ululation, the smoky hair
Curtaining a cheek. 'Don't go near bad boys
In that college that you're bound for. Do you hear me?
Do you hear me speaking to you? Don't forget!'
And then the postick quickening the gruel,
The steam crown swirled, everything intimate
And fear-swathed brightening for a moment,
Then going dull and fatal and away.

*

Grey matter like gruel flecked with blood
In spatters on the whitewash. A clean spot
Where his head had been, other stains subsumed
In the parched wall he leant his back against
That morning like any other morning,
Part-time reservist, toting his lunch-box.
A car came slow down Castle Street, made the halt,
Crossed the Diamond, slowed again and stopped
Level with him, although it was not his lift.
And then he saw an ordinary face
For what it was and a gun in his own face.
His right leg was hooked back, his sole and heel
Against the wall, his right knee propped up steady,
So he never moved, just pushed with all his might
Against himself, then fell past the tarred strip,
Feeding the gutter with his copious blood.

*

My dear brother, you have good stamina.
You stay on where it happens. Your big tractor
Pulls up at the Diamond, you wave at people,
You shout and laugh about the revs, you keep
old roads open by driving on the new ones.
You called the piper's sporrans whitewash brushes
And then dressed up and marched us through the kitchen,
But you cannot make the dead walk or right wrong.
I see you at the end of your tether sometimes,
In the milking parlour, holding yourself up
Between two cows until your turn goes past,
Then coming to in the smell of dung again
And wondering, is this all? As it was
In the beginning, is now and shall be?
Then rubbing your eyes and seeing our old brush
Up on the byre door, and keeping going. Fishermen at Ballyshannon
Netted an infant last night
Along with the salmon.
An illegitimate spawning,

A small one thrown back
To the waters. But I'm sure
As she stood in the shallows
Ducking him tenderly

Till the frozen knobs of her wrists
Were dead as the gravel,
He was a minnow with hooks
Tearing her open.

She waded in under
The sign of the cross.
He was hauled in with the fish.
Now limbo will be

A cold glitter of souls
Through some far briny zone.
Even Christ's palms, unhealed,
Smart and cannot fish there. The timeless waves, bright, sifting, broken glass,
Came dazzling around, into the rocks,
Came glinting, sifting from the Americas

To posess Aran. Or did Aran rush
to throw wide arms of rock around a tide
That yielded with an ebb, with a soft crash?

Did sea define the land or land the sea?
Each drew new meaning from the waves' collision.
Sea broke on land to full identity. I sat all morning in the college sick bay
Counting bells knelling classes to a close.
At two o'clock our neighbors drove me home.

In the porch I met my father crying--
He had always taken funerals in his stride--
And Big Jim Evans saying it was a hard blow.

The baby cooed and laughed and rocked the pram
When I came in, and I was embarrassed
By old men standing up to shake my hand

And tell me they were 'sorry for my trouble,'
Whispers informed strangers I was the eldest,
Away at school, as my mother held my hand

In hers and coughed out angry tearless sighs.
At ten o'clock the ambulance arrived
With the corpse, stanched and bandaged by the nurses.

Next morning I went up into the room. Snowdrops
And candles soothed the bedside; I saw him
For the first time in six weeks. Paler now,

Wearing a poppy bruise on his left temple,
He lay in the four foot box as in his cot.
No gaudy scars, the bumper knocked him clear.

A four foot box, a foot for every year.
There was a sunlit absence.
The helmeted pump in the yard
heated its iron,
water honeyed

in the slung bucket
and the sun stood
like a griddle cooling
against the wall

of each long afternoon.
So, her hands scuffled
over the bakeboard,
the reddening stove

sent its plaque of heat
against her where she stood
in a floury apron
by the window.

Now she dusts the board
with a goose's wing,
now sits, broad-lapped,
with whitened nails

and measling shins:
here is a space
again, the scone rising
to the tick of two clocks.

And here is love
like a tinsmith's scoop
sunk past its gleam
in the meal-bin.

2. The Seed Cutters

They seem hundreds of years away. Brueghel,
You'll know them if I can get them true.
They kneel under the hedge in a half-circle
Behind a windbreak wind is breaking through.
They are the seed cutters. The tuck and frill
Of leaf-sprout is on the seed potates
Buried under that straw. With time to kill,
They are taking their time. Each sharp knife goes
Lazily halving each root that falls apart
In the palm of the hand: a milky gleam,
And, at the centre, a dark watermark.
Oh, calendar customs! Under the broom
Yellowing over them, compose the frieze
With all of us there, our anonymities. 
Our shells clacked on the plates.
My tongue was a filling estuary,
My palate hung with starlight:
As I tasted the salty Pleiades
Orion dipped his foot into the water.
Alive and violated,
They lay on their bed of ice:
Bivalves: the split bulb
And philandering sigh of ocean
Millions of them ripped and shucked and scattered.
We had driven to that coast
Through flowers and limestone
And there we were, toasting friendship,
Laying down a perfect memory
In the cool of thatch and crockery.
Over the Alps, packed deep in hay and snow,
The Romans hauled their oysters south to Rome:
I saw damp panniers disgorge
The frond-lipped, brine-stung
Glut of privilege
And was angry that my trust could not repose
In the clear light, like poetry or freedom
Leaning in from sea. I ate the day
Deliberately, that its tang
Might quicken me all into verb, pure verb. As a child, they could not keep me from wells 
And old pumps with buckets and windlasses. 
I loved the dark drop, the trapped sky, the smells 
Of waterweed, fungus and dank moss. 


One, in a brickyard, with a rotted board top. 
I savoured the rich crash when a bucket 
Plummeted down at the end of a rope. 
So deep you saw no reflection in it. 


A shallow one under a dry stone ditch 
Fructified like any aquarium. 
When you dragged out long roots from the soft mulch 
A white face hovered over the bottom. 


Others had echoes, gave back your own call 
With a clean new music in it. And one 
Was scaresome, for there, out of ferns and tall 
Foxgloves, a rat slapped across my reflection. 


Now, to pry into roots, to finger slime, 
To stare, big-eyed Narcissus, into some spring 
Is beneath all adult dignity. I rhyme 
To see myself, to set the darkness echoing. And some time make the time to drive out west
Into County Clare, along the Flaggy Shore,
In September or October, when the wind
And the light are working off each other
So that the ocean on one side is wild
With foam and glitter, and inland among stones
The surface of a slate-grey lake is lit
By the earthed lightening of flock of swans,
Their feathers roughed and ruffling, white on white,
Their fully-grown headstrong-looking heads
Tucked or cresting or busy underwater.
Useless to think you'll park or capture it
More thoroughly. You are neither here nor there,
A hurry through which known and strange things pass
As big soft buffetings come at the car sideways
And catch the heart off guard and blow it open The pockets of our greatcoats full of barley...
No kitchens on the run, no striking camp...
We moved quick and sudden in our own country.
The priest lay behind ditches with the tramp.
A people hardly marching... on the hike...
We found new tactics happening each day: 
We'd cut through reins and rider with the pike
And stampede cattle into infantry, 
Then retreat through hedges where cavalry must be thrown.
Until... on Vinegar Hill... the final conclave.
Terraced thousands died, shaking scythes at cannon.
The hillside blushed, soaked in our broken wave.
They buried us without shroud or coffin
And in August... the barley grew up out of our grave. So winter closed its fist
And got it stuck in the pump.
The plunger froze up a lump

In its throat, ice founding itself
Upon iron. The handle
Paralysed at an angle.

Then the twisting of wheat straw
into ropes, lapping them tight
Round stem and snout, then a light

That sent the pump up in a flame
It cooled, we lifted her latch,
Her entrance was wet, and she came. A rowan like a lipsticked girl. 
Between the by-road and the main road 
Alder trees at a wet and dripping distance 
Stand off among the rushes. 

There are the mud-flowers of dialect 
And the immortelles of perfect pitch 
And that moment when the bird sings very close 
To the music of what happens Here is the girl's head like an exhumed gourd.
Oval-faced, prune-skinned, prune-stones for teeth.

They unswaddled the wet fern of her hair
And made an exhibition of its coil,
Let the air at her leathery beauty.
Pash of tallow, perishable treasure:
Her broken nose is dark as a turf clod,
Her eyeholes blank as pools in the old workings.
Diodorus Siculus confessed
His gradual ease with the likes of this:
Murdered, forgotten, nameless, terrible
Beheaded girl, outstaring axe
And beatification, outstaring
What had begun to feel like reverence. I loved to carry
Her violin case, its nose
In air, its back end
Nice and heavy, the balance
Factored in and factored out.

Every time she placed
Her two thumbs to the two snibs
And opened the lid
She couldn’t help a quick frown
(Disguised pleasure?) as she checked.

Then her brow would clear
And the sun disc of her face
Tilt up and brighten
At the tap of a baton,
At the tip of a baton…

In the baize-lined case
Emptied of the ingrown jut
Of the fiddlehead,
A lump of ancient resin
And a dirty chamois cloth.

The conductor’s hands –
Big and out of proportion
To his skinny wee
Professor’s body–always,
she said, “interested” her.

Fiddlehead ferns: why
do I think of them do I
Think: Toraiwa?
Because–surprise–he quizzed me
about the erotic life. 'We were killing pigs when the 
Yanks arrived.
A Tuesday morning, sunlight
and gutter-blood
Outside the slaughter house.
>From the main road
They would have heard the screaming,
Then heard it stop and had a view of us 
In our gloves and aprons coming
down the hill.
Two lines of them, guns on their 
shoulders, marching.
Armoured cars and tanks and open jeeps.
Sunburnt hands and arms.
Unarmed, in step,
Hosting for Normandy.
Not that we knew then
Where they were headed, standing
there like youngsters
As they tossed us gum and tubes of
coloured sweets' I was six when I first saw kittens drown.
Dan Taggart pitched them, 'the scraggy wee shits',
Into a bucket; a frail metal sound,

Soft paws scraping like mad. But their tiny din
Was soon soused. They were slung on the snout 
Of the pump and the water pumped in.

'Sure, isn't it better for them now?' Dan said.
Like wet gloves they bobbed and shone till he sluiced
Them out on the dunghill, glossy and dead.

Suddenly frightened, for days I sadly hung
Round the yard, watching the three sogged remains
Turn mealy and crisp as old summer dung

Until I forgot them. But the fear came back
When Dan trapped big rats, snared rabbits, shot crows
Or, with a sickening tug, pulled old hens' necks.

Still, living displaces false sentiments
And now, when shrill pups are prodded to drown
I just shrug, 'Bloody pups'. It makes sense:

'Prevention of cruelty' talk cuts ice in town
Where they consider death unnatural
But on well-run farms pests have to be kept down. As if he had been poured
in tar, he lies
on a pillow of turf
and seems to weep

the black river of himself.
The grain of his wrists
is like bog oak,
the ball of his heel

like a basalt egg.
His instep has shrunk
cold as a swan’s foot
or a wet swamp root.

His hips are the ridge
and purse of a mussel,
his spine an eel arrested
under a glisten of mud.

The head lifts,
the chin is a visor
raised above the vent
of his slashed throat

that has tanned and toughened.
The cured wound
opens inwards to a dark
elderberry place.

Who will say ‘corpse’
to his vivid cast?
Who will say ‘body’
to his opaque repose?

And his rusted hair,
a mat unlikely
as a foetus’s.
I first saw his twisted face

in a photograph,
a head and shoulder
out of the peat,
bruised like a forceps baby,

but now he lies
perfected in my memory,
down to the red horn
of his nails,

hung in the scales
with beauty and atrocity:
with the Dying Gaul
too strictly compassed

on his shield,
with the actual weight
of each hooded victim,
slashed and dumped. As you plaited the harvest bow 
You implicated the mellowed silence in you 
In wheat that does not rust 
But brightens as it tightens twist by twist 
Into a knowable corona, 
A throwaway love-knot of straw. 

Hands that aged round ashplants and cane sticks 
And lapped the spurs on a lifetime of game cocks 
Harked to their gift and worked with fine intent 
Until your fingers moved somnambulant: 
I tell and finger it like braille, 
Gleaning the unsaid off the palpable, 

And if I spy into its golden loops 
I see us walk between the railway slopes 
Into an evening of long grass and midges, 
Blue smoke straight up, old beds and ploughs in hedges, 
An auction notice on an outhouse wall— 
You with a harvest bow in your lapel, 

Me with the fishing rod, already homesick 
For the big lift of these evenings, as your stick 
Whacking the tips off weeds and bushes 
Beats out of time, and beats, but flushes 
Nothing: that original townland 
Still tongue-tied in the straw tied by your hand. 

The end of art is peace 
Could be the motto of this frail device 
That I have pinned up on our deal dresser— 
Like a drawn snare 
Slipped lately by the spirit of the corn 
Yet burnished by its passage, and still warm. When you plunged
The light of Tuscany wavered
And swung through the pool
From top to bottom.

I loved your wet head and smashing crawl,
Your fine swimmer's back and shoulders
Surfacing and surfacing again
This year and every year since.

I sat dry-throated on the warm stones.
You were beyond me.
The mellowed clarities, the grape-deep air
Thinned and disappointed.

Thank God for the slow loadening,
When I hold you now
We are close and deep
As the atmosphere on water.

My two hands are plumbed water.
You are my palpable, lithe
Otter of memory
In the pool of the moment,

Turning to swim on your back,
Each silent, thigh-shaking kick
Re-tilting the light,
Heaving the cool at your neck.

And suddenly you're out,
Back again, intent as ever,
Heavy and frisky in your freshened pelt,
Printing the stones. Perch on their water perch hung in the clear Bann River
Near the clay bank in alder dapple and waver,

Perch they called ‘grunts’, little flood-slubs, runty and ready,
I saw and I see in the river’s glorified body

That is passable through, but they’re bluntly holding the 
pass,
Under the water-roof, over the bottom, adoze

On the current, against it, all muscle and slur
In the finland of perch, the fenland of alder, on air

That is water, on carpets of Bann stream, on hold
In the everything flows and steady go of the world. Some day I will go to Aarhus 
To see his peat-brown head, 
The mild pods of his eye-lids, 
His pointed skin cap. 

In the flat country near by 
Where they dug him out, 
His last gruel of winter seeds 
Caked in his stomach, 

Naked except for 
The cap, noose and girdle, 
I will stand a long time. 
Bridegroom to the goddess, 

She tightened her torc on him 
And opened her fen, 
Those dark juices working 
Him to a saint's kept body, 

Trove of the turfcutters' 
Honeycombed workings. 
Now his stained face 
Reposes at Aarhus. 


II 


I could risk blasphemy, 
Consecrate the cauldron bog 
Our holy ground and pray 
Him to make germinate 

The scattered, ambushed 
Flesh of labourers, 
Stockinged corpses 
Laid out in the farmyards, 

Tell-tale skin and teeth 
Flecking the sleepers 
Of four young brothers, trailed 
For miles along the lines. 

III 


Something of his sad freedom 
As he rode the tumbril 
Should come to me, driving, 
Saying the names 

Tollund, Grauballe, Nebelgard, 

Watching the pointing hands 
Of country people, 
Not knowing their tongue. 

Out here in Jutland 
In the old man-killing parishes 
I will feel lost, 
Unhappy and at home. Her scarf a la Bardot, 
In suede flats for the walk, 
She came with me one evening
For air and friendly talk.
We crossed the quiet river, 
Took the embankment walk.

Traffic holding its breath, 
Sky a tense diaphragm: 
Dusk hung like a backcloth
That shook where a swan swam, 
Tremulous as a hawk
Hanging deadly, calm.

A vacuum of need
Collapsed each hunting heart
But tremulously we held
As hawk and prey apart, 
Preserved classic decorum, 
Deployed our talk with art.

Our Juvenilia
Had taught us both to wait, 
Not to publish feeling
And regret it all too late -
Mushroom loves already
Had puffed and burst in hate.

So, chary and excited, 
As a thrush linked on a hawk, 
We thrilled to the March twilight
With nervous childish talk: 
Still waters running deep
Along the embankment walk. A spirit moved. John Harvard walked the yard,
The atom lay unsplit, the west unwon,
The books stood open and the gates unbarred.

The maps dreamt on like moondust. Nothing stirred.
The future was a verb in hibernation.
A spirit moved, John Harvard walked the yard.

Before the classic style, before the clapboard,
All through the small hours of an origin,
The books stood open and the gate unbarred.

Night passage of a migratory bird.
Wingflap. Gownflap. Like a homing pigeon
A spirit moved, John Harvard walked the yard.

Was that his soul (look) sped to its reward
By grace or works? A shooting star? An omen?
The books stood open and the gate unbarred.

Begin again where frosts and tests were hard.
Find yourself or founder. Here, imagine
A spirit moves, John Harvard walks the yard,
The books stand open and the gates unbarred. The grackle's voice is less than mellow,
His heart is black, his eye is yellow,
He bullies more attractive birds
With hoodlum deeds and vulgar words,
And should a human interfere,
Attacks that human in the rear.
I cannot help but deem the grackle
An ornithological debacle. Whales have calves, 
Cats have kittens, 
Bears have cubs, 
Bats have bittens, 
Swans have cygnets, 
Seals have puppies, 
But guppies just have little guppies. Behold the hippopotamus!
We laugh at how he looks to us,
And yet in moments dank and grim,
I wonder how we look to him.

Peace, peace, thou hippopotamus!
We really look all right to us,
As you no doubt delight the eye
Of other hippopotami. He, who navigated with success
the dangerous river of his own birth
once more set forth

on a voyage of discovery
into the land I floated on
but could not touch to claim.

His feet slid on the bank,
the currents took him;
he swirled with ice and trees in the swollen water

and plunged into distant regions,
his head a bathysphere;
through his eyes' thin glass bubbles

he looked out, reckless adventurer
on a landscape stranger than Uranus
we have all been to and some remember.

There was an accident; the air locked,
he was hung in the river like a heart.
They retrieved the swamped body,

cairn of my plans and future charts,
with poles and hooks
from among the nudging logs.

It was spring, the sun kept shining, the new grass
leapt to solidity;
my hands glistened with details.

After the long trip I was tired of waves.
My foot hit rock. The dreamed sails
collapsed, ragged.
I planted him in this country
like a flag. Winter. Time to eat fat
and watch hockey. In the pewter mornings, the cat, 
a black fur sausage with yellow
Houdini eyes, jumps up on the bed and tries 
to get onto my head. It's his
way of telling whether or not I'm dead.
If I'm not, he wants to be scratched; if I am 
He'll think of something. He settles
on my chest, breathing his breath
of burped-up meat and musty sofas,
purring like a washboard. Some other tomcat, 
not yet a capon, has been spraying our front door, 
declaring war. It's all about sex and territory, 
which are what will finish us off
in the long run. Some cat owners around here 
should snip a few testicles. If we wise 
hominids were sensible, we'd do that too, 
or eat our young, like sharks.
But it's love that does us in. Over and over 
again, He shoots, he scores! and famine
crouches in the bedsheets, ambushing the pulsing 
eiderdown, and the windchill factor hits 
thirty below, and pollution pours
out of our chimneys to keep us warm.
February, month of despair,
with a skewered heart in the centre.
I think dire thoughts, and lust for French fries 
with a splash of vinegar.
Cat, enough of your greedy whining
and your small pink bumhole.
Off my face! You're the life principle,
more or less, so get going
on a little optimism around here.
Get rid of death. Celebrate increase. Make it be spring. vYour lungs fill & spread themselves,
wings of pink blood, and your bones
empty themselves and become hollow.
When you breathe in you’ll lift like a balloon
and your heart is light too & huge,
beating with pure joy, pure helium.
The sun’s white winds blow through you,
there’s nothing above you,
you see the earth now as an oval jewel,
radiant & seablue with love.
It’s only in dreams you can do this.
Waking, your heart is a shaken fist,
a fine dust clogs the air you breathe in;
the sun’s a hot copper weight pressing straight
down on the think pink rind of your skull.
It’s always the moment just before gunshot.
You try & try to rise but you cannot. Marriage is not
a house or even a tent

it is before that, and colder:


the edge of the forest, the edge
of the desert 
the unpainted stairs 
at the back where we squat 
outside, eating popcorn

the edge of the receding glacier

where painfully and with wonder
at having survived even
this far

we are learning to make fire The world is full of women
who'd tell me I should be ashamed of myself
if they had the chance. Quit dancing.
Get some self-respect
and a day job.
Right. And minimum wage,
and varicose veins, just standing
in one place for eight hours
behind a glass counter
bundled up to the neck, instead of 
naked as a meat sandwich.
Selling gloves, or something.
Instead of what I do sell.
You have to have talent 
to peddle a thing so nebulous
and without material form.
Exploited, they'd say. Yes, any way
you cut it, but I've a choice
of how, and I'll take the money.I do give value.
Like preachers, I sell vision,
like perfume ads, desire
or its facsimile. Like jokes
or war, it's all in the timing.
I sell men back their worse suspicions:
that everything's for sale,
and piecemeal. They gaze at me and see
a chain-saw murder just before it happens,
when thigh, ass, inkblot, crevice, tit, and nipple
are still connected.
Such hatred leaps in them,
my beery worshippers! That, or a bleary
hopeless love. Seeing the rows of heads 
and upturned eyes, imploring
but ready to snap at my ankles,
I understand floods and earthquakes, and the urge 
to step on ants. I keep the beat,
and dance for them because
they can't. The music smells like foxes,
crisp as heated metal
searing the nostrils
or humid as August, hazy and languorous
as a looted city the day after,
when all the rape's been done
already, and the killing,
and the survivors wander around
looking for garbage
to eat, and there's only a bleak exhaustion.
Speaking of which, it's the smiling
tires me out the most. 
This, and the pretence
that I can't hear them.
And I can't, because I'm after all
a foreigner to them.
The speech here is all warty gutturals,
obvious as a slab of ham,
but I come from the province of the gods
where meanings are lilting and oblique.
I don't let on to everyone,
but lean close, and I'll whisper:
My mother was raped by a holy swan.
You believe that? You can take me out to dinner. 
That's what we tell all the husbands.
There sure are a lot of dangerous birds around.

Not that anyone here
but you would understand.
The rest of them would like to watch me
and feel nothing. Reduce me to components
as in a clock factory or abattoir.
Crush out the mystery.
Wall me up alive
in my own body. 
They'd like to see through me, 
but nothing is more opaque
than absolute transparency.
Look--my feet don't hit the marble!
Like breath or a balloon, I'm rising,
I hover six inches in the air
in my blazing swan-egg of light.
You think I'm not a goddess?
Try me.
This is a torch song.
Touch me and you'll burn. In the secular night you wander around
alone in your house. It's two-thirty.
Everyone has deserted you,
or this is your story;
you remember it from being sixteen,
when the others were out somewhere, having a good time,
or so you suspected,
and you had to baby-sit.
You took a large scoop of vanilla ice-cream
and filled up the glass with grapejuice
and ginger ale, and put on Glenn Miller
with his big-band sound,
and lit a cigarette and blew the smoke up the chimney,
and cried for a while because you were not dancing,
and then danced, by yourself, your mouth circled with purple.

Now, forty years later, things have changed,
and it's baby lima beans.
It's necessary to reserve a secret vice.
This is what comes from forgetting to eat
at the stated mealtimes. You simmer them carefully,
drain, add cream and pepper,
and amble up and down the stairs,
scooping them up with your fingers right out of the bowl,
talking to yourself out loud.
You'd be surprised if you got an answer,
but that part will come later.

There is so much silence between the words,
you say. You say, The sensed absence
of God and the sensed presence
amount to much the same thing,
only in reverse.
You say, I have too much white clothing.
You start to hum.
Several hundred years ago
this could have been mysticism
or heresy. It isn't now.
Outside there are sirens.
Someone's been run over.
The century grinds on. Love is not a profession
genteel or otherwise

sex is not dentistry
the slick filling of aches and cavities

you are not my doctor
you are not my cure,

nobody has that
power, you are merely a fellow/traveller

Give up this medical concern,
buttoned, attentive,

permit yourself anger
and permit me mine

which needs neither
your approval nor your suprise

which does not need to be made legal
which is not against a disease

but against you,
which does not need to be understood

or washed or cauterized,
which needs instead

to be said and said.
Permit me the present tense. More and more frequently the edges
of me dissolve and I become
a wish to assimilate the world, including
you, if possible through the skin
like a cool plant's tricks with oxygen
and live by a harmless green burning.

I would not consume
you or ever
finish, you would still be there
surrounding me, complete
as the air.

Unfortunately I don't have leaves.
Instead I have eyes
and teeth and other non-green
things which rule out osmosis.

So be careful, I mean it,
I give you fair warning:

This kind of hunger draws
everything into its own
space; nor can we
talk it all over, have a calm
rational discussion.
 

_____________


According to Brueghel
when Icarus fell
it was spring

a farmer was ploughing
his field
the whole pageantry

of the year was
awake tingling
near

the edge of the sea
concerned
with itself

sweating in the sun
that melted
the wings' wax

unsignificantly
off the coast
there was

a splash quite unnoticed
this was
Icarus drowning You sullen pig of a man 
you force me into the mud 
with your stinking ash-cart!

Brother! 
-if we were rich 
we'd stick our chests out 
and hold our heads high!

It is dreams that have destroyed us.

There is no more pride 
in horses or in rein holding. 
We sit hunched together brooding 
our fate.

Well- 
all things turn bitter in the end 
whether you choose the right or 
the left way 
and- 
dreams are not a bad thing. The birches are mad with green points 
the wood's edge is burning with their green, 
burning, seething--No, no, no. 
The birches are opening their leaves one 
by one. Their delicate leaves unfold cold 
and separate, one by one. Slender tassels 
hang swaying from the delicate branch tips-- 
Oh, I cannot say it. There is no word. 
Black is split at once into flowers. In 
every bog and ditch, flares of 
small fire, white flowers!--Agh, 
the birches are mad, mad with their green. 
The world is gone, torn into shreds 
with this blessing. What have I left undone 
that I should have undertaken? 

O my brother, you redfaced, living man 
ignorant, stupid whose feet are upon 
this same dirt that I touch--and eat. 
We are alone in this terror, alone, 
face to face on this road, you and I, 
wrapped by this flame! 
Let the polished plows stay idle, 
their gloss already on the black soil. 
But that face of yours--! 
Answer me. I will clutch you. I 
will hug you, grip you. I will poke my face 
into your face and force you to see me. 
Take me in your arms, tell me the commonest 
thing that is in your mind to say, 
say anything. I will understand you--! 
It is the madness of the birch leaves opening 
cold, one by one. 

My rooms will receive me. But my rooms 
are no longer sweet spaces where comfort 
is ready to wait on me with its crumbs. 
A darkness has brushed them. The mass 
of yellow tulips in the bowl is shrunken. 
Every familiar object is changed and dwarfed. 
I am shaken, broken against a might 
that splits comfort, blows apart 
my careful partitions, crushes my house 
and leaves me--with shrinking heart 
and startled, empty eyes--peering out 
into a cold world. 

In the spring I would be drunk! In the spring 
I would be drunk and lie forgetting all things. 
Your face! Give me your face, Yang Kue Fei! 
your hands, your lips to drink! 
Give me your wrists to drink-- 
I drag you, I am drowned in you, you 
overwhelm me! Drink! 
Save me! The shad bush is in the edge 
of the clearing. The yards in a fury 
of lilac blossoms are driving me mad with terror. 
Drink and lie forgetting the world. 

And coldly the birch leaves are opening one by one. 
Coldly I observe them and wait for the end. 
And it ends. 
lay beyond some blue shadows. 

Into the room he drew 
his head again and laughed 
to himself quietly 
twirling his green moustaches. Leaves are graygreen,
the glass broken, bright green.Love is twain, it is not single,
Gold and silver mixed to one,
Passion ‘tis and pain which mingle
Glist'ring then for aye undone.

Pain it is not; wondering pity
Dies or e'er the pang is fled;
Passion ‘tis not, foul and gritty,
Born one instant, instant dead.

Love is twain, it is not single,
Gold and silver mixed to one,
Passion ‘tis and pain which mingle
Glist'ring then for aye undone. I lie here thinking of you:--- 

the stain of love
is upon the world!
Yellow, yellow, yellow
it eats into the leaves,
smears with saffron
the horned branched the lean
heavily
against a smooth purple sky!
There is no light
only a honey-thick stain
that drips from leaf to leaf
and limb to limb
spoiling the colors
of the whole world- 

you far off there under
the wine-red selvage of the west! Winter is long in this climate 
and spring--a matter of a few days 
only,--a flower or two picked 
from mud or from among wet leaves 
or at best against treacherous 
bitterness of wind, and sky shining 
teasingly, then closing in black 
and sudden, with fierce jaws.

II

March, 
you reminded me of 
the pyramids, our pyramids-- 
stript of the polished stone 
that used to guard them! 
March, 
you are like Fra Angelico 
at Fiesole, painting on plaster! 

March, 
you are like a band of 
young poets that have not learned 
the blessedness of warmth 
(or have forgotten it). 
At any rate-- 
I am moved to write poetry 
for the warmth there is in it 
and for the loneliness-- 
a poem that shall have you 
in it March.

III

See! 
Ashur-ban-i-pal, 
the archer king, on horse-back, 
in blue and yellow enamel! 
with drawn bow--facing lions 
standing on their hind legs, 
fangs bared! his shafts 
bristling in their necks! 

Sacred bulls--dragons 
in embossed brickwork 
marching--in four tiers-- 
along the sacred way to 
Nebuchadnezzar's throne hall! 
They shine in the sun, 
they that have been marching-- 
marching under the dust of 
ten thousand dirt years. 

Now-- 
they are coming into bloom again! 
See them! 
marching still, bared by 
the storms from my calender 
--winds that blow back the sand! 
winds that enfilade dirt! 
winds that by strange craft 
have whipt up a black army 
that by pick and shovel 
bare a procession to 
the god, Marduk! 

Natives cursing and digging 
for pay unearth dragons with 
upright tails and sacred bulls 
alternately-- 
in four tiers-- 
lining the way to an old altar! 
Natives digging at old walls-- 
digging me warmth--digging me sweet loneliness 
high enamelled walls.

IV

My second spring-- 
passed in a monastery 
with plaster walls--in Fiesole 
on the hill above 'Florence. 
My second spring--painted 
a virgin--in a blue aureole 
sitting on a three-legged stool, 
arms crossed-- 
she is intently serious, 
and still 
watching an angel 
with colored wings 
half kneeling before her-- 
and smiling--the angel's eyes 
holding the eyes of Mary 
as a snake's hold a bird's. 
On the ground there are flowers, 
trees are in leaf.

V

But! now for the battle! 
Now for murder--now for the real thing! 
My third springtime is approaching! 
Winds! 
lean, serious as a virgin, 
seeking, seeking the flowers of March. 

Seeking 
flowers nowhere to be found, 
they twine among the bare branches 
in insatiable eagerness-- 
they whirl up the snow 
seeking under it-- 
they--the winds--snakelike 
roar among yellow reeds 
seeking flowers--flowers. 

I spring among them 
seeking one flower 
in which to warm myself! 

I deride with all the ridicule 
of misery-- 
my own starved misery. 

Counter-cutting winds 
strike against me 
refreshing their fury! 

Come, good, cold fellows! 
Have we no flowers? 
Defy then with even more 
desperation than ever--being 
lean and frozen! 

But though you are lean and frozen-- 
think of the blue bulls of Babylon. 

Fling yourselves upon 
their empty roses-- 
cut savagely! 

But-- 
think of the painted monastery 
at Fiesole. You say love is this, love is that: 
Poplar tassels, willow tendrils 
the wind and the rain comb, 
tinkle and drip, tinkle and drip-- 
branches drifting apart. Hagh! 
Love has not even visited this country. There is a bird in the poplars! 
It is the sun! 
The leaves are little yellow fish 
swimming in the river. 
The bird skims above them, 
day is on his wings. 
Phoebus! 
It is he that is making 
the great gleam among the poplars! 
It is his singing 
outshines the noise 
of leaves clashing in the wind.   

***

The storm blows over, Sun comes out,
The choir breaks up with jest and shout,
With what relief I watch them part--
Another note would break my heart! Are you awake, Gemelli, 
This frosty night?' 
'We'll be awake till reveillé, 
Which is Sunrise,' say the Gemelli, 
'It's no good trying to go to sleep: 
If there's wine to be got we'll drink it deep, 
But rest is hopeless to-night, 
But rest is hopeless to-night.' 

'Are you cold too, poor Pleiads, 
This frosty night?' 
'Yes, and so are the Hyads: 
See us cuddle and hug,' say the Pleiads, 
'All six in a ring: it keeps us warm: 
We huddle together like birds in a storm: 
It's bitter weather to-night, 
It's bitter weather to-night.' 

'What do you hunt, Orion, 
This starry night?' 
'The Ram, the Bull and the Lion, 
And the Great Bear,' says Orion, 
'With my starry quiver and beautiful belt 
I am trying to find a good thick pelt 
To warm my shoulders to-night, 
To warm my shoulders to-night. 

'Did you hear that, Great She-bear, 
This frosty night? 
'Yes, he's talking of stripping me bare 
Of my own big fur,' says the She-bear, 
'I'm afraid of the man and his terrible arrow: 
The thought of it chills my bones to the marrow, 
And the frost so cruel to-night! 
And the frost so cruel to-night!' 

'How is your trade, Aquarius, 
This frosty night?' 
'Complaints is many and various 
And my feet are cold,' says Aquarius, 
'There's Venus objects to Dolphin-scales, 
And Mars to Crab-spawn found in my pails, 
And the pump has frozen to-night, 
And the pump has frozen to-night.' “What do you think 
The bravest drink 
Under the sky?” 
“Strong beer,” said I. 

“There’s a place for everything,
Everything, anything, 
There’s a place for everything 
Where it ought to be: 
For a chicken, the hen’s wing; 
For poison, the bee’s sting;
For almond-blossom, Spring; 
A beerhouse for me.” 

“There’s a prize for every one 
Every one, any one, 
There’s a prize for every one,
Whoever he may be: 
Crags for the mountaineer, 
Flags for the Fusilier, 
For English poets, beer! 
Strong beer for me!”

“Tell us, now, how and when 
We may find the bravest men?” 
“A sure test, an easy test: 
Those that drink beer are the best, 
Brown beer strongly brewed,
English drink and English food.” 

Oh, never choose as Gideon chose 
By the cold well, but rather those 
Who look on beer when it is brown, 
Smack their lips and gulp it down.
Leave the lads who tamely drink 
With Gideon by the water brink, 
But search the benches of the Plough, 
The Tun, the Sun, the Spotted Cow, 
For jolly rascal lads who pray,
Pewter in hand, at close of day, 
“Teach me to live that I may fear 
The grave as little as my beer.” Love, do not count your labour lost
Though I turn sullen, grim, retired
Even at your side; my thought is crossed
With fancies by old longings fired.

And when I answer you, some days
Vaguely and wildly, do not fear
That my love walks forbidden ways,
Breaking the ties that hold it here.

If I speak gruffly, this mood is
Mere indignation at my own
Shortcomings, plagues, uncertainties;
I forget the gentler tone.

'You,' now that you have come to be
My one beginning, prime and end,
I count at last as wholly 'me,'
Lover no longer nor yet friend.

Friendship is flattery, though close hid;
Must I then flatter my own mind?
And must (which laws of shame forbid)
Blind love of you make self-love blind?

... Do not repay me my own coin,
The sharp rebuke, the frown, the groan;
No, stir my memory to disjoin
Your emanation from my own.

Help me to see you as before
When overwhelmed and dead, almost,
I stumbled on that secret door
Which saves the live man from the ghost.

Be once again the distant light,
Promise of glory not yet known
In full perfection — -wasted quite
When on my imperfection thrown. Love is universal migraine,
A bright stain on the vision
Blotting out reason. 

Symptoms of true love
Are leanness, jealousy,
Laggard dawns; 

Are omens and nightmares -
Listening for a knock,
Waiting for a sign: 

For a touch of her fingers
In a darkened room,
For a searching look. 

Take courage, lover!
Could you endure such pain
At any hand but hers? One moonlit night a ship drove in,
A ghost ship from the west,
Drifting with bare mast and lone tiller,
Like a mermaid drest
In long green weed and barnacles:
She beached and came to rest.

All the watchers of the coast
Flocked to view the sight,
Men and women streaming down
Through the summer night,
Found her standing tall and ragged
Beached in the moonlight.

Then one old woman looked and wept
'The 'Alice Jean'? But no!
The ship that took my Dick from me
Sixty years ago
Drifted back from the utmost west
With the ocean's flow?

'Caught and caged in the weedy pool
Beyond the western brink,
Where crewless vessels lie and rot
in waters black as ink.
Torn out again by a sudden storm
Is it the 'Jean', you think?'

A hundred women stared agape,
The menfolk nudged and laughed,
But none could find a likelier story
For the strange craft.
With fear and death and desolation
Rigged fore and aft.

The blind ship came forgotten home
To all but one of these
Of whom none dared to climb aboard her:
And by and by the breeze
Sprang to a storm and the 'Alice Jean'
Foundered in frothy seas. Down in the mud I lay, 
Tired out by my long day 
Of five damned days and nights, 
Five sleepless days and nights,… 
Dream-snatched, and set me where
The dungeon of Despair 
Looms over Desolate Sea, 
Frowning and threatening me 
With aspect high and steep— 
A most malignant keep.
My foes that lay within 
Shouted and made a din, 
Hooted and grinned and cried: 
“Today we’ve killed your pride; 
Today your ardour ends
We’ve murdered all your friends; 
We’ve undermined by stealth 
Your happiness and your health. 
We’ve taken away your hope; 
Now you may droop and mope
To misery and to Death.” 
But with my spear of Faith, 
Stout as an oaken rafter, 
With my round shield of laughter, 
With my sharp, tongue-like sword
That speaks a bitter word, 
I stood beneath the wall 
And there defied them all. 
The stones they cast I caught 
And alchemized with thought
Into such lumps of gold 
As dreaming misers hold. 
The boiling oil they threw 
Fell in a shower of dew, 
Refreshing me; the spears
Flew harmless by my ears, 
Struck quivering in the sod; 
There, like the prophet’s rod, 
Put leaves out, took firm root, 
And bore me instant fruit.
My foes were all astounded, 
Dumbstricken and confounded, 
Gaping in a long row; 
They dared not thrust nor throw. 
Thus, then, I climbed a steep
Buttress and won the keep, 
And laughed and proudly blew 
My horn, “Stand to! Stand to! 
Wake up, sir! Here’s a new 
Attack! Stand to! Stand to!” Louder than gulls the little children scream 
Whom fathers haul into the jovial foam; 
But others fearlessly rush in, breast high, 
Laughing the salty water from their mouthes- 
Heroes of the nursery. 

The horny boatman, who has seen whales 
And flying fishes, who has sailed as far 
As Demerara and the Ivory Coast, 
Will warn them, when they crowd to hear his tales, 
That every ocean smells of tar. The silent shepherdess,
She of my vows,
Here with me exchanging love
Under dim boughs.

Shines on our mysteries
A sudden spark--
'Dout the candle, glow-worm,
Let all be dark.

'The birds have sung their last notes,
The Sun's to bed,
Glow-worm, dout your candle.'
The glow-worm said:

'I also am a lover;
The lamp I display
Is beacon for my true love
Wandering astray.

'Through the thick bushes
And the grass comes she
With a heartload of longing
And love for me.

'Sir, enjoy your fancy,
But spare me harm,
A lover is a lover,
Though but a worm.' Back from the Somme two Fusiliers 
Limped painfully home; the elder said, 
S. “Robert, I’ve lived three thousand years 
This Summer, and I’m nine parts dead.” 
R. “But if that’s truly so,” I cried, “quick, now,
Through these great oaks and see the famous bough 

”Where once a nonsense built her nest 
With skulls and flowers and all things queer, 
In an old boot, with patient breast 
Hatching three eggs; and the next year…”
S. “Foaled thirteen squamous young beneath, and rid 
Wales of drink, melancholy, and psalms, she did.” 

Said he, “Before this quaint mood fails, 
We’ll sit and weave a nonsense hymn,” 
R. “Hanging it up with monkey tails
In a deep grove all hushed and dim….” 
S. “To glorious yellow-bunched banana-trees,” 
R. “Planted in dreams by pious Portuguese,” 

S. “Which men are wise beyond their time, 
And worship nonsense, no one more.”
R. “Hard by, among old quince and lime, 
They’ve built a temple with no floor,” 
S. “And whosoever worships in that place, 
He disappears from sight and leaves no trace.” 

R. “Once the Galatians built a fane
To Sense: what duller God than that?” 
S. “But the first day of autumn rain 
The roof fell in and crushed them flat.” 
R. “Ay, for a roof of subtlest logic falls 
When nonsense is foundation for the walls.”

I tell him old Galatian tales; 
He caps them in quick Portuguese, 
While phantom creatures with green scales 
Scramble and roll among the trees. 
The hymn swells; on a bough above us singsGabble-gabble . . . brethren . . . gabble-gabble!'
My window glimpses larch and heather. 
I hardly hear the tuneful babble,
Not knowing nor much caring whether 
The text is praise or exhortation,
Prayer of thanksgiving or damnation.

Outside it blows wetter and wetter,
The tossing trees never stay still; 
I shift my elbows to catch better
The full round sweep of heathered hill. 
The tortured copse bends to and fro
In silenece like a shadow-show.

The parson's voice runs like a river
Over smooth rocks. I like this church. 
The pews are staid, they never shiver,
They never bend or sway or lurch. 
'Prayer,' says the kind voice, 'is a chain
That draws down Grace from Heaven again.'

I add the hymns up over and over
Until there's not the least mistake. 
Seven-seventy-one. (Look! there's a plover!
It's gone!) Who's that Saint by the Lake? 
The red light from his mantle passes
Across the broad memorial brasses.

It's pleasant here for dreams and thinking.
Lolling and letting reason nod, 
With ugly, serious people linking
Prayer-chains for a forgiving God. 
But a dumb blast sets the trees swaying
WIth furious zeal like madmen praying. As Jesus and his followers
Upon a Sabbath morn
Were walking by a wheat field
They plucked the ears of corn.

They plucked it, they rubbed it,
They blew the husks away,
Which grieved the pious pharisees
Upon the Sabbath day.

And Jesus said, 'A riddle
Answer if you can,
Was man made for the Sabbath
Or Sabbath made for man?'

I do not love the Sabbath,
The soapsuds and the starch,
The troops of solemn people
Who to Salvation march.Under this loop of honeysuckle, 
A creeping, coloured caterpillar, 
I gnaw the fresh green hawthorn spray, 
I nibble it leaf by leaf away. 

Down beneath grow dandelions,
Daisies, old-man’s-looking-glasses; 
Rooks flap croaking across the lane. 
I eat and swallow and eat again. 

Here come raindrops helter-skelter; 
I munch and nibble unregarding:
Hawthorn leaves are juicy and firm. 
I’ll mind my business: I’m a good worm. 

When I’m old, tired, melancholy, 
I’ll build a leaf-green mausoleum 
Close by, here on this lovely spray,
And die and dream the ages away. 

Some say worms win resurrection, 
With white wings beating flitter-flutter, 
But wings or a sound sleep, why should I care? 
Either way I’ll miss my share.

Under this loop of honeysuckle, 
A hungry, hairy caterpillar, 
I crawl on my high and swinging seat, 
And eat, eat, eat—as one ought to eat. Children are dumb to say how hot the day is,
How hot the scent is of the summer rose,
How dreadful the black wastes of evening sky,
How dreadful the tall soldiers drumming by.

But we have speech, to chill the angry day,
And speech, to dull the rose's cruel scent.
We spell away the overhanging night,
We spell away the soldiers and the fright.

There's a cool web of language winds us in,
Retreat from too much joy or too much fear:
We grow sea-green at last and coldly die
In brininess and volubility.

But if we let our tongues lose self-possession,
Throwing off language and its watery clasp 
Before our death, instead of when death comes,
Facing the wide glare of the children's day,
Facing the rose, the dark sky and the drums,
We shall go mad no doubt and die that way. Two roads diverged in a yellow wood,
And sorry I could not travel both
And be one traveler, long I stood
And looked down one as far as I could
To where it bent in the undergrowth; 

Then took the other, as just as fair,
And having perhaps the better claim
Because it was grassy and wanted wear,
Though as for that the passing there
Had worn them really about the same,

And both that morning equally lay
In leaves no step had trodden black.
Oh, I kept the first for another day! 
Yet knowing how way leads on to way
I doubted if I should ever come back.

I shall be telling this with a sigh
Somewhere ages and ages hence:
Two roads diverged in a wood, and I,
I took the one less traveled by,
And that has made all the difference.  wonder about the trees.
Why do we wish to bear
Forever the noise of these
More than another noise
So close to our dwelling place?
We suffer them by the day
Till we lose all measure of pace,
And fixity in our joys,
And acquire a listening air.
They are that that talks of going
But never gets away;
And that talks no less for knowing,
As it grows wiser and older,
That now it means to stay.
My feet tug at the floor
And my head sways to my shoulder
Sometimes when I watch trees sway,
From the window or the door.
I shall set forth for somewhere,
I shall make the reckless choice
Some day when they are in voice
And tossing so as to scare
The white clouds over them on.
I shall have less to say,
But I shall be gone. You know Orion always comes up sideways. 
Throwing a leg up over our fence of mountains, 
And rising on his hands, he looks in on me 
Busy outdoors by lantern-light with something 
I should have done by daylight, and indeed, 
After the ground is frozen, I should have done 
Before it froze, and a gust flings a handful 
Of waste leaves at my smoky lantern chimney 
To make fun of my way of doing things, 
Or else fun of Orion's having caught me. 
Has a man, I should like to ask, no rights 
These forces are obliged to pay respect to?' 
So Brad McLaughlin mingled reckless talk 
Of heavenly stars with hugger-mugger farming, 
Till having failed at hugger-mugger farming 
He burned his house down for the fire insurance 
And spent the proceeds on a telescope 
To satisfy a lifelong curiosity 
About our place among the infinities. 

`What do you want with one of those blame things?' 
I asked him well beforehand. `Don't you get one!' 

`Don't call it blamed; there isn't anything 
More blameless in the sense of being less 
A weapon in our human fight,' he said. 
`I'll have one if I sell my farm to buy it.' 
There where he moved the rocks to plow the ground 
And plowed between the rocks he couldn't move, 
Few farms changed hands; so rather than spend years 
Trying to sell his farm and then not selling, 
He burned his house down for the fire insurance 
And bought the telescope with what it came to. 
He had been heard to say by several: 
`The best thing that we're put here for's to see; 
The strongest thing that's given us to see with's 
A telescope. Someone in every town 
Seems to me owes it to the town to keep one. 
In Littleton it might as well be me.' 
After such loose talk it was no surprise 
When he did what he did and burned his house down. 

Mean laughter went about the town that day 
To let him know we weren't the least imposed on, 
And he could wait---we'd see to him tomorrow. 
But the first thing next morning we reflected 
If one by one we counted people out 
For the least sin, it wouldn't take us long 
To get so we had no one left to live with. 
For to be social is to be forgiving. 
Our thief, the one who does our stealing from us, 
We don't cut off from coming to church suppers, 
But what we miss we go to him and ask for. 
He promptly gives it back, that is if still 
Uneaten, unworn out, or undisposed of. 
It wouldn't do to be too hard on Brad 
About his telescope. Beyond the age 
Of being given one for Christmas gift, 
He had to take the best way he knew how 
To find himself in one. Well, all we said was 
He took a strange thing to be roguish over. 
Some sympathy was wasted on the house, 
A good old-timer dating back along; 
But a house isn't sentient; the house 
Didn't feel anything. And if it did, 
Why not regard it as a sacrifice, 
And an old-fashioned sacrifice by fire, 
Instead of a new-fashioned one at auction? 

Out of a house and so out of a farm 
At one stroke (of a match), Brad had to turn 
To earn a living on the Concord railroad, 
As under-ticket-agent at a station 
Where his job, when he wasn't selling tickets, 
Was setting out, up track and down, not plants 
As on a farm, but planets, evening stars 
That varied in their hue from red to green. 

He got a good glass for six hundred dollars. 
His new job gave him leisure for stargazing. 
Often he bid me come and have a look 
Up the brass barrel, velvet black inside, 
At a star quaking in the other end. 
I recollect a night of broken clouds 
And underfoot snow melted down to ice, 
And melting further in the wind to mud. 
Bradford and I had out the telescope. 
We spread our two legs as we spread its three, 
Pointed our thoughts the way we pointed it, 
And standing at our leisure till the day broke, 
Said some of the best things we ever said. 
That telescope was christened the Star-Splitter, 
Because it didn't do a thing but split 
A star in two or three, the way you split 
A globule of quicksilver in your hand 
With one stroke of your finger in the middle. 
It's a star-splitter if there ever was one, 
And ought to do some good if splitting stars 
'Sa thing to be compared with splitting wood. 

We've looked and looked, but after all where are we? 
Do we know any better where we are, 
And how it stands between the night tonight 
And a man with a smoky lantern chimney? 
How different from the way it ever stood? They had a Rotten Convention
And everyone was there:
Hamburger Face and Gruesome Grace
And the Skull with the slimy hair.

There was Mr. Mud and the Creepin' Crud
And the Drooler and Belchin' Bob,
There was Three-Headed Ann- - she was holdin' hands
With the Whimperin' Simperin Slob.

The Unpronounceable Name, he came,
And so did Saw-Nose Dan
And Poopin' Pete and Smelly Feet
And the Half-Invisible Man.

There was Sudden Death and Sweat-Sock Breath,
Big Barf and the Deadly Bore,
And Killin' Dillon and other villains
We'd never seen before.There was a group called called Scum of the Earth
And they say they got their birth
In a basement bar on Greek Street down in Soho
The bass man he smoked grass and the drummer he kicked ass 
And the lead guitar ate speed while everybody boogied
The drummer's name was Mavis he was a twice convicted rapist
They say he learned to play in a garage band in Balham
He'd cut out your heart for a dime and he kept lousy time
But the rest of the band was too damned scared to tell him
And The Scum of the Earth they just keep boogyin' on
Higher and higher until the fire was burned out and gone
And The Scum of the Earth they just keep boogyin' on
Now the bass man's names was Spiker he dressed like a black jacket biker
But underneath his leathers he wore black lace silk panties
They say he sang his sweet love number directly to the drummer
While he kept his eye on the guitar player's fanny
On lead guitar was Static he was a hey health-food fanatic 
He lived on berries and nuts and had scurvy and rickets 
He did his Yoga excercisin' and he kept on tryin' and tryin'
'til finally he could bend all the way over and lick it 
And The Scum of the Earth they just keep boogyin' on
Higher and higher until the fire was burned out and gone
And The Scum of the Earth they just keep boogyin' on. 
Now one night Scum of the Earth they was playin' for all they was worth
Guitar screams and wails and cymbal crashes louder faster and higher
Till their electric cords caught fire and the whole damn band was burned to a pile of ashes 
And The Scum of the Earth they just keep boogyin' on
Higher and higher until the fire was burned out and gone
And The Scum of the Earth they just keep boogyin' on Lappo I leave behind and Dante too,
Lo, I would sail the seas with thee alone!
Talk me no love talk, no bought-cheap fiddl’ry,
Mine is the ship and thine the merchandise,
All the blind earth knows not th'emprise
Whereto thou calledst and whereto I call.

Lo, I have seen thee bound about with dreams,
Lo, I have known thy heart and its desire;
Life, all of it, my sea, and all men's streams
Are fused in it as flames of an altar fire !
Lo, thou hast voyaged not! The ship is mine.' The black panther treads at my side,
And above my fingers
There float the petal-like flames.

The milk-white girls
Unbend from the holly-trees,
And their snow-white leopard
Watches to follow our trace. Such wast thou,
Who art now
But buried dust and rusted skeleton.
Above the bones and mire,
Motionless, placed in vain,
Mute mirror of the flight of speeding years,
Sole guard of grief
Sole guard of memory
Standeth this image of the beauty sped.

O glance, when thou wast still as thou art now,
How hast thou set the fire
A-tremble in men's veins; lip curved high
To mind me of some urn of full delight,
O throat girt round of old with swift desire,
O palms of Love, that in your wonted ways
Not once but many a day
Felt hands turn ice a-sudden, touching ye,
That ye were once! of all the grace ye had
That which remaineth now
Shameful, most sad
Finds 'neath this rock fit mould, fit resting place!

And still when fate recalleth,
Even that semblance that appears amongst us
Is like to heaven's most 'live imagining.
All, all our life's eternal mystery!
To-day, on high
Mounts, from our mighty thoughts and from the fount
Of sense untellable, Beauty
That seems to be some quivering splendour cast
By the immortal nature on this quicksand,

And by surhuman fates
Given to mortal state
To be a sign and an hope made secure
Of blissful kingdoms and the aureate spheres;
And on the morrow, by some lightsome twist,
Shameful in sight, abject, abominable
All this angelic aspect can return
And be but what it was
With all the admirable concepts that moved from it
Swept from the mind with it in its departure.

Infinite things desired, lofty visions
'Got on desirous thoughts by natural virtue,
And the wise concord, whence through delicious seas
The arcane spirit of the whole Mankind
Turns hardy pilot . . . and if one wrong note
Strike the tympanum,
Instantly
That paradise is hurled to nothingness.

O mortal nature,
If thou art
Frail and so vile in all,
How canst thou reach so high with thy poor sense;
Yet if thou art
Noble in any part
How is the noblest of thy speech and thought
So lightly wrought
Or to such base occasion lit and quenched? No man hath dared to write this thing as yet, 
And yet I know, how that the souls of all men great 
At times pass athrough us, 
And we are melted into them, and are not 
Save reflexions of their souls. 
Thus am I Dante for a space and am 
One Francois Villon, ballad-lord and thief, 
Or am such holy ones I may not write 
Lest blasphemy be writ against my name; 
This for an instant and the flame is gone.

'Tis as in midmost us there glows a sphere 
Translucent, molten gold, that is the "I" 
And into this some form projects itself: 
Christus, or John, or eke the Florentine; 
And as the clear space is not if a form's 
Imposed thereon, 
So cease we from all being for the time, 
And these, the Masters of the Soul, live on. No man hath dared to write this thing as yet, 
And yet I know, how that the souls of all men great 
At times pass athrough us, 
And we are melted into them, and are not 
Save reflexions of their souls. 
Thus am I Dante for a space and am 
One Francois Villon, ballad-lord and thief, 
Or am such holy ones I may not write 
Lest blasphemy be writ against my name; 
This for an instant and the flame is gone.

'Tis as in midmost us there glows a sphere 
Translucent, molten gold, that is the "I" 
And into this some form projects itself: 
Christus, or John, or eke the Florentine; 
And as the clear space is not if a form's 
Imposed thereon, 
So cease we from all being for the time, 
And these, the Masters of the Soul, live on. 
Theodorus will be pleased at my death,
And .someone else will be pleased at the death of Theodoras,
And yet everyone speaks evil of death.

II
This place is the Cyprian's for she has ever the fancy
To be looking out across the bright sea,
Therefore the sailors are cheered, and the waves
Keep small with reverence, beholding her image.
Anyte

III
A sad and great evil is the expectation of death
And there are also the inane expenses of the funeral;
Let us therefore cease from pitying the dead
For after death there comes no other calamity.
Palladas

IV
Troy
Whithe r, O city, are your profits and your gilded shrines,
And your barbecues of great oxen,
And the tall women walking your streets, in gilt clothes,
With their perfumes in little alabaster boxes?
Where is the work of your home-born sculptors?

Time's tooth is into the lot, and war's and fate's too.
Envy has taken your all,
Save your douth and your story.
Agathas Scholasticus

V
Woman? Oh, woman is a consummate rage,
but dead, or asleep, she pleases.
Take her. She has two excellent seasons.
Palladas
VI
Nicharcus upon Phidon his doctor
Phidon neither purged me, nor touched me,
But I remembered the name of his fever medicine and
died. Shades of Callimachus, Coan ghosts of Philetas
It is in your grove I would walk,
I who come first from the clear font
Bringing the Grecian orgies into Italy,
and the dance into Italy.
Who hath taught you so subtle a measure,
in what hall have you heard it;
What foot beat out your time-bar,
what water has mellowed your whistles ?

Out-weariers of Apollo will, as we know, continue their
Martian generalities,
We have kept our erasers in order.
A new-fangled chariot follows the flower-hung horses;
A young Muse with young loves clustered about her
ascends with me into the aether, . . .
And there is no high-road to the Muses.

Annalists will continue to record Roman reputations,
Celebrities from the Trans-Caucasus will belaud Roman celebrities
And expound the distentions of Empire,
But for something to read in normal circumstances?
For a few pages brought down from the forked hill unsullied?
I ask a wreath which will not crush my head.
And there is no hurry about it;
I shall have, doubtless, a boom after my funeral,
Seeing that long standing increases all things
regardless of quality.
And who would have known the towers
pulled down by a deal-wood horse;
Or of Achilles withstaying waters by Simois
Or of Hector spattering wheel-rims,
Or of Polydmantus, by Scamander, or Helenas and
Deiphoibos?
Their door-yards would scarcely know them, or Paris.
Small talk O Ilion, and O Troad
twice taken by Oetian gods,
If Homer had not stated your case!

And I also among the later nephews of this city
shall have my dog's day,
With no stone upon my contemptible sepulchre;
My vote coming from the temple of Phoebus in Lycia, at Patara,
And in the mean time my songs will travel,
And the devirginated young ladies will enjoy them
when they have got over the strangeness,
For Orpheus tamed the wild beasts
and held up the Threician river;
And Citharaon shook up the rocks by Thebes
and danced them into a bulwark at his pleasure,
And you, O Polyphemus? Did harsh Galatea almost
Turn to your dripping horses, because of a tune, under Aetna?
We must look into the matter.
Bacchus and Apollo in favour of it,
There will be a crowd of young women doing homage to my palaver,
Though my house is not propped up by Taenarian
columns from Laconia (associated with Neptune and Cerberus),
Though it is not stretched upon gilded beams;
My orchards do not lie level and wide
as the forests of Phaecia,
the luxurious and Ionian,
Nor are my caverns stuffed stiff with a Marcian vintage,
My cellar does not date from Numa Pompilius,
Nor bristle with wine jars,
Nor is it equipped with a frigidaire patent;
Yet the companions of the Muses
will keep their collective nose in my books,
And weary with historical data, they will turn to my dance tune.
Happy who are mentioned in my pamphlets,
the songs shall be a fine tomb-stone over their beauty.
But against this ?
Neither expensive pyramids scraping the stars in their route,
Nor houses modelled upon that of Jove in East Elis,
Nor the monumental effigies of Mausolus,
are a complete elucidation of death.

Flame burns, rain sinks into the cracks
And they all go to rack ruin beneath the thud of the years.
Stands genius a deathless adornment,
a name not to be worn out with the years. I had been seen in the shade, recumbent on cushioned Helicon,
The water dripping from Bellerophon's horse,
Alba, your kings, and the realm your folk
have constructed with such industry
Shall be yawned out on my lyre with such industry.
My little mouth shall gobble in such great fountains,
'Wherefrom father Ennius, sitting before I came, hath drunk.'
I had rehearsed the Curian brothers, and made remarks
on the Horatian javelin
(Near Q. H. Flaccus' book-stall).
'Of’ royal Aemilia, drawn on the memorial raft,
'Of’ the victorious delay of Fabius, and the left-handed
battle at Cannae,
Of lares fleeing the 'Roman seat' . . .
I had sung of all these
And of Hannibal,
and of Jove protected by geese.
And Phoebus looking upon me from the Castalian tree,
Said then 'You idiot! What are you doing with that water:
‘Who has ordered a book about heroes?
'You need, Propertius, not think
'About acquiring that sort of a reputation.
'Soft fields must be worn by small wheels,
'Your pamphlets will be thrown, thrown often into a chair
'Where a girl waits alone for her lover;
'Why wrench your page out of its course?
'No keel will sink with your genius
'Let another oar churn the water,
'Another wheel, the arena; mid-crowd is as bad as mid-sea.'
He had spoken, and pointed me a place with his plectrum:

Orgies of vintages, an earthern image of Silenus
Strengthened with rushes, Tegaean Pan,
The small birds of the Cytharean mother,
their Punic faces dyed in the Gorgon's lake;
Nine girls, from as many countrysides

bearing her offerings in their unhardened hands,
Such my cohort and setting. And she bound ivy to his thyrsos;
Fitted song to the strings;
Roses twined in her hands.
And one among them looked at me with face offended,
Calliope:
'Content ever to move with white swans!
'Nor will the noise of high horses lead you ever to battle;
Nor will the public criers ever have your name;
in their classic horns,
'Nor Mars shout you in the wood at Aeonium,
Nor where Rome ruins German riches,
'Nor where the Rhine flows with barbarous blood,
and flood carries wounded Suevi.
'Obviously crowned lovers at unknown doors,
'Night dogs, the marks of a drunken scurry,
'These are your images, and from you the sorcerizing of
shut-in young ladies,
'The wounding of austere men by chicane.'
Thus Mistress Calliope,
Dabbling her hands in the fount, thus she
Stiffened our face with the backwash of Philetas the Coan. Midnight, and a letter comes to me from our mistress:
Telling me to come to Tibur:
At once!!
'Bright tips reach up from twin towers,
'Anienan spring water falls into flat-spread pools.'

What is to be done about it?
Shall I entrust myself to entangled shadows,
Where bold hands may do violence to my person?
Yet if I postpone my obedience
because of this respectable terror,
I shall be prey to lamentations worse than a nocturnal assailant.
And I shall be in the wrong,
it will last a twelve month,
For her hands have no kindness me-ward,

Nor is there anyone to whom lovers are not sacred at midnight
And in the Via Sciro.
If any man would be a lover
he may walk on the Scythian coast,
No barbarism would go to the extent of doing him harm,
The moon will carry his candle,
and the stars will point out the stumbles,
Cupid will carry lighted torches before him
and keep mad dogs off his ankles.
Thus all roads are perfectly safe
and at any hour;
Who so indecorous as to shed the pure gore of a suitor?!
Cypris is his cicerone.

What if undertakers follow my track,
such a death is worth dying.
She would bring frankincense and wreaths to my tomb,
She would sit like an ornament on my pyre.

aid, let not my bones lie in a public location
With crowds too assiduous in their crossing of it;
For thus are tombs of lovers most desecrated.

May a woody and sequestered place cover me with its foliage
Or may I inter beneath the hummock
of some as yet uncatalogued sand;Tell me the truths which you hear of our constant young lady,
Lygdamus,
And may the bought yoke of a mistress lie with
equitable weight on your shoulders;
For I am swelled up with inane pleasurabilities
and deceived by your reference
To things which you think I would like to believe.

No messenger should come wholly empty,
and a slave should fear plausibilities;
Much conversation is as good as having a home.
Out with it, tell it to me, all of it, from the beginning,
I guzzle with outstretched ears.
Thus? She wept into uncombed hair,
And you saw it.
Vast waters flowed from her eyes ?
You, you Lygdamus
Saw her stretched on her bed,
was no glimpse in a mirror;
No gawds on her snowy hands, no orfevrerie,
Sad garment draped on her slender arms.
Her escritoires lay shut by the bed-feet.
Sadness hung over the house, and the desolated female attendants
Were desolated because she had told them her dreams.

She was veiled in the midst of that place,
Damp woolly handkerchiefs were stuffed into her undryable eyes,
And a querulous noise responded to our solicitous reprobations.
For which things you will get a reward from me, Lygdamus?
To say many things is equal to having a home.
And the other woman 'has not enticed me
by her pretty manners,
'She has caught me with herbaceous poison,
she twiddles the spiked wheel of a rhombus,
'She stews puffed frogs, snake's bones, the moulted
'She stews puffed frogs, snake's bones, the moulted
feathers of screech owls,

'She binds me with ravvles of shrouds.
Black spiders spin in her bedl
'Let her lovers snore at her in the morning!
May the gout cramp up her feet!
'Does he like me to sleep here alone,
Lygdamus?
'Will he say nasty things at my funeral?'

And you expect me to believe this
after twelve months of discomfort ? 
The twisted rhombs ceased their clamour of accompaniment;
The scorched laurel lay in the fire-dust;
The moon still declined to descend out of heaven,

But the black ominous owl hoot was audible.

And one raft bears our fates
on the veiled lake towards Avernus
Sails spread on Cerulean waters, I would shed tears for two;
I shall live, if she continue in life,
If she dies, I shall go with her.
Great Zeus, save the woman,
or she will sit before your feet in a veil, and tell
out the long list of her troubles.

2
Persephone and Dis, Dis, have mercy upon her,
There are enough women in hell,
quite enough beautiful women,
lope, and Tyro, and Pasiphae, and the formal girls of Achaia,
And out of Troad, and from the Campania,
Death has his tooth in the lot,
Avernus lusts for the lot of them,
Beauty is not eternal, no man has perennial fortune,
Slow foot, or swift foot, death delays but for a season.
My light, light of my eyes,
you are escaped from great peril,
Go back to Great Dian's dances bearing suitable gifts,
Pay up your vow of night watches
to Dian goddess of virgins,
And unto me also pay debt:
The ten nights of your company you have promised me. Now if ever it is time to cleanse Helicon;
to lead Emathian horses afield,
And to name over the census of my chiefs in the Roman camp.
If I have not the faculty, 'The bare attempt would be praise-worthy.'
'In the things of similar magnitude
the mere will to act is sufficient.'
The primitive ages sang Venus,
the last sings of a tumult,
And I also will sing war when this matter of a girl is exhausted.
I with my beak hauled ashore would proceed in a more stately manner,
My Muse is eager to instruct me in a new gamut, or gambetto,
Up, up my soul, from your lowly cantilation,
put on a timely vigour.
Oh august Pierides! Now for a large-mouthed product.
Thus:
'The Euphrates denies its protection to the Parthian and
apologizes for Crassus,'
And 'It is, I think, India which now gives necks to your triumph,'
And so forth, Augustus. 'Virgin Arabia shakes in her inmost dwelling.'
If any land shrink into a distant seacoast,
it is a mere postponement of your domination.
And I shall follow the camp, I shall be duly celebrated
for singing the affairs of your cavalry.
May the fates watch over my day.

2
Yet you ask on what account I write so many love-lyrics
And whence this soft book comes into my mouth.
Neither Calliope nor Apollo sung these things into my ear,
My genius is no more than a girl.

If she with ivory fingers drive a tune through the lyre,
We look at the process.
How easy the moving fingers; if hair is mussed on her forehead,
If she goes in a gleam of Cos, in a slither of dyed stuff,
There is a volume in the matter; if her eyelids sink into sleep,
There are new jobs for the author;
And if she plays with me with her shirt off,
We shall construct many Iliads.
And whatever she does or says
We shall spin long yarns out of nothing.

Thus much the fates have allotted me, and if, Maecenas,
I were able to lead heroes into armour, I would not,
Neither would I warble of Titans, nor of Ossa
spiked onto Olympus,
Nor of causeways over Pelion,
Nor of Thebes in its ancient respectability,
nor of Homer's reputation in Pergamus,
Nor of Xerxes' two-barreled kingdom, nor of Remus and his royal family,
Nor of dignified Carthaginian characters,
Nor of Welsh mines and the profit Marus had out of them,
I should remember Caesar's affairs . . .
for a background,
Although Callimachus did without them,
and without Theseus,
Without an inferno, without Achilles attended of gods,
Without Ixion, and without the sons of Menoetius and
the Argo and without Jove's grave and the Titans.

And my ventricles do not palpitate to Caesarial ore rotundas,
Nor to the tune of the Phrygian fathers.
Sailor, of winds; a plowman, concerning his oxen;
Soldier, the enumeration of wounds; the sheep-feeder, of ewes;
We, in our narrow bed, turning aside from battles:
Each man where he can, wearing out the day in his manner.
3
It is noble to die of love, and honourable to remain
uncuckolded for a season.
And she speaks ill of light women,
and will not praise Homer
Because Helen's conduct is 'unsuitable'. When, when, and whenever death closes our eyelids,

Moving naked over Acheron
Upon the one raft, victor and conquered together,
Marius and Jugurtha together,
one tangle of shadows.
Caesar plots against India,
Tigris and Euphrates shall, from now on, flow at his bidding,
Tibet shall be full of Roman policemen,
The Parthians shall get used to our statuary
and acquire a Roman religion;
One raft on the veiled flood of Acheron,
Marius and Jugurtha together.
Nor at my funeral either will there be any long trail,
bearing ancestral lares and images;
No trumpets filled with my emptiness,
Nor shall it be on an Atalic bed;
The perfumed cloths shall be absent.
A small plebeian procession.
Enough, enough and in plenty
There will be three books at my obsequies
Which I take, my not unworthy gift, to Persephone.

You will follow the bare scarified breast
Nor will you be weary of calling my name, nor too weary
To place the last kiss on my lips
When the Syrian onyx is broken.

‘He who is now vacant dust
'Was once the slave of one passion:'
Give that much inscription
‘Death why tardily come?'

You, sometimes, will lament a lost friend,
For it is a custom:
This care for past men,

Since Adonis was gored in Idalia, and the Cytharean
Ran crying with out-spread hair,
In vain, you call back the shade,
In vain, Cynthia. Vain call to unanswering shadow,
Small talk comes from small bones. Me happy, night, night full of brightness;
Oh couch made happy by iny long delectations;
How many words talked out with abundant candles;
Struggles when the lights were taken away;
Now with bared breasts she wrestled against me,
Tunic spread in delay;
And she then opening my eyelids fallen in sleep,
Her lips upon them; and it was her mouth saying:
Sluggard!

In how many varied embraces, our changing arms,
Her kisses, how many, lingering on my lips.
'Turn not Venus into a blinded motion,
Eyes are the guides of love,
Paris took Helen naked coming from the bed of Menelaus,
Endymion's naked body, bright bait for Diana,'
such at least is the story.

While our fates twine together, sate we our eyes with love;
For long night comes upon you
and a day when no day returns.
Let the gods lay chains upon us
so that no day shall unbind them.

Fool who would set a term to love's madness,
For the sun shall drive with black horses,
earth shall bring wheat from barley,
The flood shall move toward the fountain
Ere love know moderations,
The fish shall swim in dry streams.
No, now while it may be, let not the fruit of life cease.
Dry wreaths drop their petals,
their stalks are woven in baskets,
To-day we take the great breath of lovers,
to-morrow fate shuts us in.

Though you give all your kisses
you give but few.

Nor can I shift my pains to other,
Hers will I be dead,
If she confer such nights upon me,
long is my life, long in years,
If she give me many,
God am I for the time. Jove, be merciful to that unfortunate woman
Or an ornamental death will be held to your debit,
The time is come, the air heaves in torridity,
The dry earth pants against the canicular heat,
But this heat is not the root of the matter:
She did not respect all the gods;
Such derelictions have destroyed other young ladies aforetime,
And what they swore in the cupboard
wind and wave scattered away.

Was Venus exacerbated by the existence of a comparable equal?
Is the ornamental goddess full of envy?
Have you contempted Juno's Pelasgian temples,
Have you denied Pallas good eyes ?
Or is it my tongue that wrongs you
with perpetual ascription of graces?
There comes, it seems, and at any rate
through perils, (so many) and of a vexed life,
The gentler hour of an ultimate day.

Io mooed the first years with averted head,
And now drinks Nile water like a god,
Ino in her young days fled pellmell out of Thebes,
Andromeda was offered to a sea-serpent
and respectably married to Perseus,

Callisto, disguised as a bear,
wandered through the Arcadian prairies
While a black veil was over her stars,
What if your fates are accelerated,
your quiet hour put forward,
You may find interment pleasing,

You will say that you succumbed to a danger identical,
charmingly identical, with Semele's,
And believe it, and she also will believe it,
being expert from experience,
And amid all the gloried and storied beauties of Maeonia
There shall be none in a better seat, not
one denying your prestige,

Now you may bear fate's stroke unperturbed,
Or Jove, harsh as he is, may turn aside your ultimate day.
Old lecher, let not Juno get wind of the matter,
Or perhaps Juno herself will go under,
If the young lady is taken?
There will be, in any case, a stir on Olympus. Light, light of my eyes, at an exceeding late hour I was wandering,
And intoxicated,
and no servant was leading me,
And a minute crowd of small boys came from opposite,
I do not know what boys,
And I am afraid of numerical estimate,
And some of them shook little torches,
and others held onto arrows,
And the rest laid their chains upon me,
and they were naked, the lot of them,
And one of the lot was given to lust.

'That incensed female has consigned him to our pleasure.'
So spoke. And the noose was over my neck.
And another said 'Get him plumb in the middle!
'Shove along there, shove along!'
And another broke in upon this:
'He thinks that we are not gods,'
'And she has been waiting for the scoundrel,
and in a new Sidonian night cap,
And with more than Arabian odours,
God knows where he has been.
She could scarcely keep her eyes open
enter that much for his bail.
Get along now!'

We were coming near to the house,
and they gave another yank to my cloak,
And it was morning, and I wanted to see if she was alone and resting,
And Cynthia was alone in her bed.
I was stupefied.
I had never seen her looking so beautiful,
No, not when she was tunick'd in purple.

Such aspect was presented to me, me recently emerged from my visions,
You will observe that pure form has its value.

‘You are a very early inspector of mistresses.
‘Do you think I have adopted your habits?'
There were upon the bed no signs of a voluptuous encounter,
No signs of a second incumbent.

She continued:
'No incubus has crushed his body against me,
‘Though spirits are celebrated for adultery.
‘And I am going to the temple of Vesta . . .'
and so on.

Since that day I have had no pleasant nights. The harsh acts of your levity!
Many and many.
I am hung here, a scare-crow for lovers.

2
Escape! There is, O Idiot, no escape,
Flee if you like into Ranaus,
desire will follow you thither,
Though you heave into the air upon the gilded Pegasean back,
Though you had the feathery sandals of Perseus
To lift you up through split air,
The high tracks of Hermes would not afford you shelter.

Amor stands upon you, Love drives upon lovers,
a heavy mass on free necks.

It is our eyes you flee, not the city,
You do nothing, you plot inane schemes against me,
Languidly you stretch out the snare
with which I am already familiar,

And yet again, and newly rumour strikes on my ears.

Rumours of you throughout the city,
and no good rumour among them.

'You should not believe hostile tongues.
'Beauty is slander's cock-shy.
'All lovely women have known this,'
'Your glory is not outblotted by venom,'
'Phoebus our witness, your hands are unspotted.

A foreign lover brought down Helen's kingdom
and she was led back, living home;
The Cytharean brought low by Mars' lechery
reigns in respectable heavens, . . .

Oh, oh, and enough of this,
by dew-spread caverns,
The Muses clinging to the mossy ridges;
to the ledge of the rocks:
Zeus' clever rapes, in the old days,
combusted Semele's, of Io strayed.
Oh how the bird flew from Trojan rafters,
Ida has lain with a shepherd, she has slept between sheep.

Even there, no escape
Not the Hyrcanian seaboard, not in seeking the shore of Eos.

All things are forgiven for one night of your games. . . .
Though you walk in the Via Sacra, with a peacock's tail for a fan. Who, who will be the next man to entrust his girl to a friend?
Love interferes with fidelities;
The gods have brought shame on their relatives;
Each man wants the pomegranate for himself;
Amiable and harmonious people are pushed incontinent into duels,
A Trojan and adulterous person came to Menelaus under the rites of hospitium,
And there was a case in Colchis, Jason and that woman in Colchis;
And besides, Lynceus,
you were drunk.

Could you endure such promiscuity?
She was not renowned for fidelity;
But to jab a knife in my vitals, to have passed on a swig of poison,
Preferable, my dear boy, my dear Lynceus,
Comrade, comrade of my life, of my purse, of my person;
But in one bed, in one bed alone, my dear Lynceus
I deprecate your attendance;
I would ask a like boon of Jove.

And you write of Achelous, who contended with Hercules,
You write of Adrastus' horses and the funeral rites of Achenor,
And you will not leave off imitating Aeschylus.
Though you make a hash of Antimachus,
You think you are going to do Homer.
And still a girl scorns the gods,
Of all these young women
not one has enquired the cause of the world,
Nor the modus of lunar eclipses
Nor whether there be any patch left of us
After we cross the infernal ripples,
nor if the thunder fall from predestination;
Nor anything else of importance.

Upon the Actian marshes Virgil is Phoebus' chief of police,
He can tabulate Caesar's great ships.
He thrills to Ilian arms,
He shakes the Trojan weapons of Aeneas,
And casts stores on Lavinian beaches.

Make way, ye Roman authors,
clear the street, ye Greeks,
For a much larger Iliad is on the course of construction
(and to Imperial order)
Clear the streets, O ye Greeks!

And you also follow him 'neath Phrygian pine shade:
Thyrsis and Daphnis upon whittled reeds,
And how ten sins can corrupt young maidens;
Kids for a bribe and pressed udders,
Happy selling poor loves for cheap apples.

Tityrus might have sung the same vixen;
Corydon tempted Alexis,
Head farmers do likewise, and lying weary amid their oats
They get praise from tolerant Hamadryads.'
Go on, to Ascraeus' prescription, the ancient, respected, Wordsworthian:
‘A flat field for rushes, grapes grow on the slope.'
And behold me, small fortune left in my house.
Me, who had no general for a grandfather!
I shall triumph among young ladies of indeterminate character,
My talent acclaimed in their banquets,
I shall be honoured with yesterday's wreaths.
And the god strikes to the marrow.

Like a trained and performing tortoise,
I would make verse in your fashion, if she should command it,
With her husband asking a remission of sentence,
And even this infamy would not attract numerous readers
Were there an erudite or violent passion,
For the nobleness of the populace brooks nothing below its own altitude.
One must have resonance, resonance and sonority . . .
like a goose.

Varro sang Jason's expedition,
Varro, of his great passion Leucadia,
There is song in the parchment; Catullus the highly indecorous,
Of Lesbia, known above Helen;
And in the dyed pages of Calvus,
Calvus mourning Quintilia,
And but now Gallus had sung of Lycoris.
Fair, fairest Lycoris
The waters of Styx poured over the wound:
And now Propertius of Cynthia, taking his stand among these. For three years, out of key with his time,
He strove to resuscitate the dead art
Of poetry; to maintain "the sublime"
In the old sense. Wrong from the start --

No, hardly, but, seeing he had been born
In a half savage country, out of date;
Bent resolutely on wringing lilies from the acorn;
Capaneus; trout for factitious bait:

"Idmen gar toi panth, os eni Troie
Caught in the unstopped ear;
Giving the rocks small lee-way
The chopped seas held him, therefore, that year.

His true Penelope was Flaubert,
He fished by obstinate isles;
Observed the elegance of Circe's hair
Rather than the mottoes on sun-dials.

Unaffected by "the march of events",
He passed from men's memory in l'an trentiesme
De son eage; the case presents
No adjunct to the Muses' diadem.

II.

The age demanded an image
Of its accelerated grimace,
Something for the modern stage,
Not, at any rate, an Attic grace;

Not, not certainly, the obscure reveries
Of the inward gaze;
Better mendacities
Than the classics in paraphrase!

The "age demanded" chiefly a mould in plaster,
Made with no loss of time,
A prose kinema, not, not assuredly, alabaster
Or the "sculpture" of rhyme.

III. 

The tea-rose, tea-gown, etc.
Supplants the mousseline of Cos,
The pianola "replaces"
Sappho's barbitos.

Christ follows Dionysus,
Phallic and ambrosial
Made way for macerations;
Caliban casts out Ariel.

All things are a flowing,
Sage Heracleitus says;
But a tawdry cheapness
Shall reign throughout our days.

Even the Christian beauty
Defects -- after Samothrace;
We see to kalon
Decreed in the market place.

Faun's flesh is not to us,
Nor the saint's vision.
We have the press for wafer;
Franchise for circumcision.

All men, in law, are equals.
Free of Peisistratus,
We choose a knave or an eunuch
To rule over us.

A bright Apollo,

tin andra, tin eroa, tina theon,
What god, man, or hero
Shall I place a tin wreath upon?

IV. 

These fought, in any case,
and some believing, pro domo, in any case ..

Some quick to arm,
some for adventure,
some from fear of weakness,
some from fear of censure,
some for love of slaughter, in imagination,
learning later ...

some in fear, learning love of slaughter;
Died some pro patria, non dulce non et decor" ..

walked eye-deep in hell
believing in old men's lies, then unbelieving
came home, home to a lie,
home to many deceits,
home to old lies and new infamy;

usury age-old and age-thick
and liars in public places.

Daring as never before, wastage as never before.
Young blood and high blood,
Fair cheeks, and fine bodies;

fortitude as never before 

frankness as never before,
disillusions as never told in the old days,
hysterias, trench confessions,
laughter out of dead bellies.


V. 

There died a myriad,
And of the best, among them,
For an old bitch gone in the teeth,
For a botched civilization.

Charm, smiling at the good mouth,
Quick eyes gone under earth's lid,

For two gross of broken statues,
For a few thousand battered books.

Yeux Glauques

Gladstone was still respected,
When John Ruskin produced
"Kings Treasuries"; Swinburne
And Rossetti still abused.

Fœtid Buchanan lifted up his voice
When that faun's head of hers
Became a pastime for
Painters and adulterers.

The Burne-Jones cartons
Have preserved her eyes;
Still, at the Tate, they teach
Cophetua to rhapsodize;

Thin like brook-water,
With a vacant gaze.
The English Rubaiyat was still-born
In those days.

The thin, clear gaze, the same
Still darts out faun-like from the half-ruin'd face,
Questing and passive ....
"Ah, poor Jenny's case" ...

Bewildered that a world
Shows no surprise
At her last maquero's 
Adulteries.

"Siena Mi Fe', Disfecemi Maremma" 

Among the pickled fœtuses and bottled bones,
Engaged in perfecting the catalogue,
I found the last scion of the
Senatorial families of Strasbourg, Monsieur Verog.

For two hours he talked of Gallifet;
Of Dowson; of the Rhymers' Club;
Told me how Johnson (Lionel) died
By falling from a high stool in a pub ...

But showed no trace of alcohol
At the autopsy, privately performed --
Tissue preserved -- the pure mind
Arose toward Newman as the whiskey warmed.

Dowson found harlots cheaper than hotels;
Headlam for uplift; Image impartially imbued
With raptures for Bacchus, Terpsichore and the Church.
So spoke the author of "The Dorian Mood",

M. Verog, out of step with the decade,
Detached from his contemporaries,
Neglected by the young,
Because of these reveries.

Brennbaum. 

The sky-like limpid eyes,
The circular infant's face,
The stiffness from spats to collar
Never relaxing into grace;

The heavy memories of Horeb, Sinai and the forty years,
Showed only when the daylight fell
Level across the face
Of Brennbaum "The Impeccable".

Mr. Nixon 

In the cream gilded cabin of his steam yacht
Mr. Nixon advised me kindly, to advance with fewer
Dangers of delay. "Consider
Carefully the reviewer.

"I was as poor as you are;
"When I began I got, of course,
"Advance on royalties, fifty at first", said Mr. Nixon,
"Follow me, and take a column,
"Even if you have to work free.

"Butter reviewers. From fifty to three hundred
"I rose in eighteen months;
"The hardest nut I had to crack
"Was Dr. Dundas.

"I never mentioned a man but with the view
"Of selling my own works.
"The tip's a good one, as for literature
"It gives no man a sinecure."

And no one knows, at sight a masterpiece.
And give up verse, my boy,
There's nothing in it."

* * * 

Likewise a friend of Bloughram's once advised me:
Don't kick against the pricks,
Accept opinion. The "Nineties" tried your game
And died, there's nothing in it.

X. 

Beneath the sagging roof
The stylist has taken shelter,
Unpaid, uncelebrated,
At last from the world's welter

Nature receives him,
With a placid and uneducated mistress
He exercises his talents
And the soil meets his distress.

The haven from sophistications and contentions
Leaks through its thatch;
He offers succulent cooking;
The door has a creaking latch.

XI. 

"Conservatrix of Milésien"
Habits of mind and feeling,
Possibly. But in Ealing
With the most bank-clerkly of Englishmen?

No, "Milésian" is an exaggeration.
No instinct has survived in her
Older than those her grandmother
Told her would fit her station.

XII. 

"Daphne with her thighs in bark
Stretches toward me her leafy hands", --
Subjectively. In the stuffed-satin drawing-room
I await The Lady Valentine's commands,

Knowing my coat has never been
Of precisely the fashion
To stimulate, in her,
A durable passion;

Doubtful, somewhat, of the value
Of well-gowned approbation
Of literary effort,
But never of The Lady Valentine's vocation:

Poetry, her border of ideas,
The edge, uncertain, but a means of blending
With other strata
Where the lower and higher have ending;

A hook to catch the Lady Jane's attention,
A modulation toward the theatre,
Also, in the case of revolution,
A possible friend and comforter.

* * * 

Conduct, on the other hand, the soul
"Which the highest cultures have nourished"
To Fleet St. where
Dr. Johnson flourished;

Beside this thoroughfare
The sale of half-hose has
Long since superseded the cultivation
Of Pierian roses.
